The Odds of That - NYTimes.com 

    	
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
         
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

     	 


      
      
      
      
      

      
 
 
    	
      
     
         
    
        
                                                  Log In  
              Register Now  
                                        
    
      Help  

 


     
         
              Home Page  
            
              Today's Paper  
            
              Video  
            
              Most Popular  
            
              Times Topics  
         
     
         
            

             
                                     
                 
                     
                         
                         Search All NYTimes.com 
                         
                         
                         
                       
                 
             
            
		
		 
		
							  
			

				 

		
		
									
					 
		
                	

			

						 Magazine 
			
		        		 


							
         
                                		    
 
 
	 
		 World 
		 	 
		 U.S. 
		 	 
		 N.Y. / Region 
		 	 
		 Business 
		 	 
		 Technology 
		 	 
		 Science 
		 	 
		 Health 
		 	 
		 Sports 
		 	 
		 Opinion 
		 	 
		 Arts 
		 	 
		 Style 
		 	 
		 Travel 
		 	 
		 Jobs 
		 	 
		 Real Estate 
		 	 
		 Autos 
		  
 

	                         
                 
                     
                        
                        
		
	 				
		 The Odds of That 
	 By LISA BELKIN 
	 Published: August 11, 2002 
  


 
	 
		 
			 
			    
	                 
                                        		                                                          		         	                                         Sign In to E-Mail 
                		         	                                                                            

                                     
                                                                                     Print 
                                                                         
                                                                                                                                   
                                 Single-Page 
                             
                                                                                                      	         

         
     
 



 
		
	
								 
					When the Miami Police first found Benito Que, he was slumped on a desolate side street, near the empty spot where he had habitually parked his Ford Explorer. At about the same time, Don C. Wiley mysteriously disappeared. His car, a white rented Mitsubishi Galant, was abandoned on a bridge outside of Memphis, where he had just had a jovial dinner with friends. The following week, Vladimir Pasechnik collapsed in London, apparently of a stroke.		 
					 
					The list would grow to nearly a dozen in the space of four nerve-jangling months. Stabbed in Leesburg, Va. Suffocated in an air-locked lab in Geelong, Australia. Found wedged under a chair, naked from the waist down, in a blood-splattered apartment in Norwich, England. Hit by a car while jogging. Killed in a private plane crash. Shot dead while a pizza delivery man served as a decoy.		 
					 
					What joined these men was their proximity to the world of bioterror and germ warfare. Que, the one who was car-jacked, was a researcher at the University of Miami School of Medicine. Wiley, the most famous, knew as much as anyone about how the immune system responds to attacks from viruses like Ebola. Pasechnik was Russian, and before he defected, he helped the Soviets transform cruise missiles into biological weapons. The chain of deaths -- these three men and eight others like them -- began last fall, back when emergency teams in moonsuits were scouring the Capitol, when postal workers were dying, when news agencies were on high alert and the entire nation was afraid to open its mail.		 
					 
					In more ordinary times, this cluster of deaths might not have been noticed, but these are not ordinary times. Neighbors report neighbors to the F.B.I.; passengers are escorted off planes because they make other passengers nervous; medical journals debate what to publish, for fear the articles will be read by evil eyes. Now we are spooked and startled by stories like these -- all these scientists dying within months of one another, at the precise moment when tiny organisms loom as a gargantuan threat. The stories of these dozen or so deaths started out as a curiosity and were transformed rumor by rumor into the specter of conspiracy as they circulated first on the Internet and then in the mainstream media. What are the odds , after all?		 
					 
					What are the odds, indeed?		 
					 
					For this is not about conspiracy but about coincidence -- unexpected connections that are both riveting and rattling. Much religious faith is based on the idea that almost nothing is coincidence; science is an exercise in eliminating the taint of coincidence; police work is often a feint and parry between those trying to prove coincidence and those trying to prove complicity. Without coincidence, there would be few movies worth watching (''Of all the gin joints in all the towns in all the world, she walks into mine''), and literary plots would come grinding to a disappointing halt. (What if Oedipus had not happened to marry his mother? If Javert had not happened to arrive in the town where Valjean was mayor?)		 
					 
					The true meaning of the word is ''a surprising concurrence of events, perceived as meaningfully related, with no apparent causal connection.'' In other words, pure happenstance. Yet by merely noticing a coincidence, we elevate it to something that transcends its definition as pure chance. We are discomforted by the idea of a random universe. Like Mel Gibson's character Graham Hess in M. Night Shyamalan's new movie ''Signs,'' we want to feel that our lives are governed by a grand plan.		 
					 
					The need is especially strong in an age when paranoia runs rampant. ''Coincidence feels like a loss of control perhaps,'' says John Allen Paulos, a professor of mathematics at Temple University and the author of ''Innumeracy,'' the improbable best seller about how Americans don't understand numbers. Finding a reason or a pattern where none actually exists ''makes it less frightening,'' he says, because events get placed in the realm of the logical. ''Believing in fate, or even conspiracy, can sometimes be more comforting than facing the fact that sometimes things just happen.''		 
															 	 
			
	 				
		 
	         
	 
								 	
												
						 1 
				
										 
					 2 
				 
							 
					 3 
				 
							 
					 4 
				 
							 
					 5 
				 
							 
					 6 
				 
							 
					 7 
				 
							 
					 8 
				 
							 
					 9 
				 
							 
					 10 
				 
							 
					 11 
				 
								 
							 Next Page > 
					 
	
  	
	

	 

	
	
	
	 

	
 	 
			
	 				
		 
 
 
     
         
             
                
                     
                                                                                                          		         	
                                         Sign In to E-Mail 
                		         	
                                                                            

                                     
                                                                                     Print 
                                                                         
                                                    					                           
							 Single-Page 
                         
					                                                                   
                     
     
 
 
 



	 
	                        
                     

                     
                        

            
          
    

			
	 				
		
  
  

	 
			
            
          
    
                     

                 
                	
  
  	 
              
         
                       
                 
            Inside NYTimes.com         
     
    
        
     
         
             
                 
                                                 
         
             
                                     Business » 
                             
             
                  
             
              Zynga’s Tough Culture Risks a Talent Drain  
         
     
                                                 
         
             
                                     Opinion » 
                             
             
                  
             
              Letters: Paths and Pitfalls of Election Financing  
         
     
                                                 
         
             
                                     U.S. » 
                             
             
                  
             
              Federal Cuts Give Maine a Winter Chill  
         
     
                                                 
         
             
                                     World » 
                             
             
                  
             
              In Russia, Evidence of Misstep by Putin  
         
     
                                                     
             
                  Opinion »  
                  Campaign Stops: The Future of the Obama Coalition  
                 Without the white working class vote, what do Democrats have left? 
             
         
                                                 
         
             
                                     Sports » 
                             
             
                  
             
              After Nightmarish Crash, Safety’s Dream Lives On  
         
     
                                                 
         
             
                                     Sunday Book Review »                              
             
                  
             
              How It Went  
         
     
                                                 
         
             
                                     Opinion » 
                             
             
                  
             
              Room for Debate: Friction for Germany and France  
         
     
                                                 
         
             
                                     Theater » 
                             
             
                  
             
              After a Year, ‘Spider-Man’ Earns Its Weekly Keep  
         
     
                                                 
         
             
                                     N.Y. / Region » 
                             
             
                  
             
              With Blocks, Educators Go Back to Basics  
         
     
                                                     
             
                  Opinion »  
                  Disunion: Lincoln’s Do-Nothing Generals  
                 Why did so many Union officers see the Civil War as a replay of a Napoleonic campaign? 
             
         
                                                 
         
             
                                     Arts » 
                             
             
                  
             
              The Tweets of War: What’s Past Is Postable  
         
     
                                     
             
         
     
    
     

             
                             
 
	  Home  
		 
		 World 
	 
		 
		 U.S. 
	 
		 
		 N.Y. / Region 
	 
		 
		 Business 
	 
		 
		 Technology 
	 
		 
		 Science 
	 
		 
		 Health 
	 
		 
		 Sports 
	 
		 
		 Opinion 
	 
		 
		 Arts 
	 
		 
		 Style 
	 
		 
		 Travel 
	 
		 
		 Jobs 
	 
		 
		 Real Estate 
	 
		 
		 Autos 
	 
		  Site Map  
      
          © 2011   The New York Times Company  
          Privacy  
          Your Ad Choices  
          Terms of Service  
          Terms of Sale  
          Corrections  
          RSS  
          Help  
          Contact Us  
          Work for Us  
          Advertise