Rice Virtual Lab in Statistics (RVLS) 
 








 

   Rice Virtual Lab in Statistics 
 


 
   
      
         
          
           
           
        
         Partial
           support for this work was provided by the National Science Foundation's
           Division of Undergraduate Education through grant DUE 9751307. Any
           opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in
           this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect
           the views of the National Science Foundation. 
           
           
          
          
            
         
          
       
              
          
         
            
                
              HyperStat 
              Online 
               An online statistics book with links to other statistics resources 
            on the web.  
           
            
                
              Online
                    Statistics: An Interactive Multimeida Course of Study 
               An online statistics book with simulations and video. 
           
            
                
              
                Simulations/Demonstrations  
                Java applets that demonstrate various statistical concepts.  
             
           
            
                
               Case Studies  
            Examples of real data with analyses and interpretation             
           
            
                
              Analysis 
              Lab 
             Some basic statistical analysis tools.  
           
         
           
           
          Permissions 
          Permission is granted to link to any portion of the Rice Virtual Lab. 
           
          The applets in the simulations/demonstrations are hereby in the public 
          domain and can therefore be used without restriction. The following are zip archives.  
           Download  simulations and demonstrations 
           Download  source code (Jbuilder) 
           
          If you wish to copy and/or distribute any portion of the Case Studies, 
          or the Analysis Lab, please contact  David 
          Lane . If you have material you would be willing to contribute to 
          the Rice Virtual Lab, please let us know. 
           
           
           
           Credits   
           
           Feedback  
          Your comments are welcome. Let us know what you like, what you would 
          change, and what material(s) we should add. 
         
         
           
                 
              
             Winner 2007  
           
           
             
                               
             Chosen as the cool math site of the week, May 4 - May 10, 1999
               by the " Knot
                a Braid of Links " project of the Canadian Mathematical Society. 
           
           
             
                               
             Featured by the  Eisenhower 
              National Clearinghouse  digital dozen, February 1999. (Now  goENC.com )  
           
         
          
         
         
       
     
   
     
   
 


 
 Ê 
 
 
 
 
  
 Ê