Introductory Statistics: EPR Approach  
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
   D  ear Colleague, 
 I would like to show you an effective new approach to teaching the
introductory statistics course. I have written three papers about the approach,
the abstracts of which follow: 
 The Introductory Statistics Course: 
The Entity-Property-Relationship Approach 
 Abstract: This paper proposes six concepts for discussion at the
beginning of an introductory statistics course for students who are not
majoring in statistics or mathematics. The concepts are (1) entities, (2)
properties of entities, (3) variables, (4) a major goal of empirical research:
to predict and control the values of variables, (5) relationships between
variables as a key to prediction and control, and (6) statistical techniques
for studying relationships between variables as a means to accurate prediction
and control. After students have learned the six concepts they learn standard
statistical topics in terms of the concepts. It is recommended that each
concept be taught in a bottom-up fashion with emphasis on concrete practical
examples. It is suggested that the approach gives students a lasting
appreciation of the vital role of the field of statistics in empirical
research.  
 This paper contains 31,000 words and 190 references and is available over
the Internet in four formats: 
 
  Latest version in
PDF  (336 kilobytes. For information about the free Adobe PDF reader, click
 here .
Click  here  if you have a
problem viewing the PDF document.) 
  Latest version in
HTML  (270 kilobytes) 
  Earlier 14,000-word
version in HTML  (99/2/2, 150 kilobytes) 
  Same 14,000-word version
in PDF  (169 kilobytes. Click
 here  if you have a problem
viewing the PDF document.) 
 
   
 The Entity-Property-Relationship Approach
to Statistics: 
An Introduction for Students 
 Abstract: This paper introduces the
"entity-property-relationship" approach to science and statistics at
a level suitable for students in an introductory statistics course.  
 This paper contains 21,000 words (including 24 exercises) and is
 available over the
Internet  in Adobe Portable Document Format. (306 kilobytes. For information
about the free Adobe PDF reader, click
 here .
Click  here  if you have a
problem viewing the PDF document.) 
   
 Eight Features of an Ideal Introductory
Statistics Course 
 Abstract: This paper discusses the following features of the author's
ideal introductory statistics course: (1) a clear statement of the goals of the
course, (2) a careful discussion of the fundamental concept of 'variable', (3)
a unification of statistical methods under the concept of a relationship
between variables, (4) a characterization of hypothesis testing that is
consistent with standard empirical research, (5) the use of practical examples,
(6) the right mix of pedagogical techniques: lectures, readings, discussions,
exercises, activities, group work, multimedia, (7) a proper choice of
computational technology, and (8) a de-emphasis of less important topics such
as univariate distributions, probability theory, and the mathematical theory of
statistics. The appendices contain (a) recommendations for research to test
different approaches to the introductory course and (b) discussion of
thought-provoking criticisms of the recommended approach. 
 This paper contains 18,000 words and is
 available over the
Internet  in Adobe Portable Document Format (158 kilobytes. For information
about the free Adobe PDF reader, click
 here .
Click  here  if you have a
problem viewing the PDF document.) 
   
 I welcome your comments about the ideas, either in the e-mail list EdStat-L
(= the  sci.stat.edu  Usenet newsgroup) or via
e-mail. 
 Thank you for your interest. 
  Don Macnaughton  <
 donmac@matstat.com  > 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Articles 
 If you would like to receive notification of new articles in this series
when they are first posted, please send a message to
 donmac@matstat.com  with the single word
"subscribe" in the body of the message.  
 The following articles were posted to (or announced in) EdStat-L and
sci.stat.edu on the indicated dates. The latest articles are at the end.
 
 
  Goals of Your Introductory
Statistics Course  (June 11, 1996, revised February 25, 1997) 
  How Should We
Motivate Students in Intro Stat?  (December 1, 1996)  
  response to comments by
Samuel M. Scheiner  (February 24, 1997) re tailoring the introductory
statistics course to suit the field of empirical research in which the students
are enrolled; a schema for interpreting most empirical research projects 
  response to comments by
John R. Vokey  (April 6, 1997, slightly revised on June 1, 1997) re whether
there is a set of unifying concepts that link together all empirical
(scientific) research and statistics 
  response to more comments
by Samuel M. Scheiner  (May 7, 1997) re whether it is possible or worthwhile
to convey the concepts of entities, properties, and relationships to students;
teaching guidelines  
  response to comments by
Rex Boggs  (December 16, 1996) re an approach to the introductory course
centered around "solving problems" 
  response to comments by
Dennis Roberts  (December 16, 1996) re whether "accurate
predictions" is a "myth" 
  response to more comments
by Dennis Roberts  (December 18, 1996) re the meaning of the word
"accurate" 
  response to comments by
Joe Ward  (December 18, 1996) re common interest in prediction 
 
 
  EPR Approach to Intro
Stat: Entities, Properties, and Variables  (June 25, 1996, revised February
25, 1997)  
  copies of articles by
Robert Frick, Herman Rubin, and Bill Oliver  that were spin-offs of the
above article 
  response to comments by
Robert Frick  (July 28, 1996, now slightly revised) re definition of
"variable", a possible counterexample to the EPR definition of
"variable", is the EPR definition different from mathematical
definitions? 
 
 
  EPR Approach to Intro
Stat: Relationships Between Variables  (July 14, 1996)  
  response to comments by
Brian Griffin  (July 18, 1996) re the relative societal importance of
prediction and explanation 
  response to comments by
George Zeliger  (July 30, 1996) re the relative societal importance of
prediction and explanation 
  response to comments by
Ronan M Conroy  (July 18, 1996) re the equivalence of the operations of
prediction and estimation 
  response to comments by
Will G Hopkins  (July 18, 1996) re terminology, examples, definition of
"variable", role of statistics 
 
 
 
 
  Re: Top 5 Notions 
(August 25, 1996) re Dennis Roberts' August 16 request for the top five notions
for the introductory course; comments about five notions suggested by David
Moore on August 18 
  EPR Approach and
Scientific "Explanation"  (response to comments by Robert Frick)
(July 23, 1997) The use of the word "law" in science. What is a
scientific theory? Is the scientific explanation of some phenomenon anything
more than identification and exercise of the associated entities, properties,
and relationships? A classification of the "laws" of science.  
  EPR Approach to Intro
Stat: Novelty, Practicality  (May 30, 1996, revised February 25, 1997) 
  The Introductory
Statistics Course: A New Approach  (May 16, 1996) 
  Review of ActivStats
2.0  (April 24, 1998) 
  Computers vs. Calculators
in Intro Stat  (June 10, 1998) [NOTE: A later version of this article
appears as section 8 in the paper "Eight Features of an Ideal Introductory
Statistics Course" available above.] 
  Computers vs. Calculators
in Intro Stat: Follow-up re AP Statistics  (June 17, 1998) 
 
 
 On July 17, 1998 I posted the abstract of the "Eight Features"
paper (available above) to sci.stat.edu and EdStat-L. Following are my
responses to comments about the abstract and paper:  
  response to comments by
Dennis Roberts  (July 23, 1998) re teaching univariate distributions at the
beginning of the introductory course; are univariate distributions boring? when
univariate distributions are necessary 
  response to comments by
Mark Myatt  (July 30, 1998) re teaching univariate distributions at the
beginning of the introductory course; the role of univariate distributions in
exploratory data analysis 
  response to comments by
Rolf Dalin  (July 31, 1998) re omitting teaching univariate distributions at
the beginning of the introductory course; other goals and features of the
introductory course 
  response to comments by
Gary Smith  (November 23, 1998) re three interesting examples of univariate
distributions (election predictions, average body temperature, and the speed of
light); how these examples fit into the rubric of relationships between
variables; why questions about univariate distributions are less important in
an introductory statistics course; APPENDICES: are relationships
"between" or "among" variables? physical constants versus
entities, properties, and relationships; the role of constants (physical and
otherwise) in empirical research; ways of viewing empirical research projects 
 
  response to comments by
Rossi Hassad  (November 25, 1998) re whether there is a necessary logical
progression from univariate distributions to relationships between variables;
whether the constructivist view of learning implies that we must first discuss
univariate distributions; the relationship between relationships between
variables and univariate distributions; the simplicity of the issues 
  response to more comments
by Dennis Roberts  (May 2, 1999) re the breadth of application of
statistical ideas; whether almost all empirical research projects can be
usefully characterized as studying relationships between variables; some
statistical methods that can not be easily characterized as studying
relationships between variables; evidence that univariate distributions
alienate students; why some students find statistics to be boring; how to make
the introductory statistics course fascinating 
  response to comments by
Karl L. Wuensch  (May 9, 1999) re two examples of univariate distributions
that may be of interest at the beginning of the introductory course; the notion
of "payoff" as a key to why relationships between variables are more
interesting than univariate distributions; why teachers continue to discuss
univariate distributions; a situation in which univariate distributions
are of interest 
  response to comments by
Herman Rubin  (May 16, 1999) re the importance of univariate distributions
in actual problems; what is needed to discuss relationships between variables?
can a relationship exist between random variables? a definition of a
relationship between variables; APPENDICES: should it be
"relationship" or "relation" between variables? testing for
a relationship between variables in Francis Galton's height data 
  response to comments by
Jan de Leeuw  (October 31, 1999) re the usefulness of the concept of
'external world'; a comparison of two definitions of the role of statistics;
confusion about hypothesis testing; alternate formulations of the distinction
between univariate distributions and relationships between variables; the
importance of univariate summaries; a survey of the types of statistical
statements in a newspaper; statistics as a service activity; the distinction
between the descriptive and action-prescriptive aspects of statistics 
  response to comments by
Bob Hayden  (July 23, 2000) a comparison of four popular types of plots to
show the relationship between a continuous response variable and a discrete
predictor variable; the order of teaching (a) the concept of
'relationship between variables' and (b) data plots in an introductory
statistics course; teaching students the underlying conceptual
principles of statistics versus teaching them the underlying
mathematical principles; a practical first detailed example of a
relationship between variables in an introductory statistics course; a system
for collecting student course-work-time data; the visual t-test  
  The logistics of
tracking student course-time  
  Student week-at-a-glance
time-tracking form (in Adobe Portable Document format)  
  Student instructions for
the above form  
  Excel workbook for
students to automatically plot course-time data  
 
 
  response to comments by
Ronan Conroy  (February 6, 2001) the substantial contributions of
André-Marie Ampère; Ampère's elucidation of the scientific
method; a very brief history of the use of the concept of 'relationship between
variables'; a possible model of animal learning in terms of relationships
between variables; the role of relationships between variables in an approach
to machine learning; the concepts of 'population' and 'sample' in empirical
research in the physical sciences; why statistical methods are used less often
in the physical sciences; how statistical methods might have helped in the cold
fusion controversy; the undefined nature of the concepts of 'entity' and
'property'; the concept of a "measure" of the value of a property;
the concept of the "true" value of a property; formality and
informality in the progress of science; comments on undefined concepts in
physics 
 
 
  Definition of
"Relationship Between Variables"  (response to comments by Jan de
Leeuw, Herman Rubin, and Robert Frick; January 28, 2002) evaluation of seven
general definitions of the concept of 'relationship between variables'; a
recommended definition of "relationship between variables" for
students who are not majoring in statistics or mathematics; must we force
students and clients to clamber from their own "space" into our
statistics "space"? must we discuss univariate distributions or
underlying mathematics at the beginning of an introductory statistics course
for students who are not majoring in statistics or mathematics? 
  The
Most Exciting Talk at the 2003 Joint Statistical Meetings  (August 22, 2003)
comments about Candace Schau's SATS (Survey of Attitudes Toward Statistics);
the promise of experimental research in statistics education 
  The Most Exciting Talk at 
the 2005 Joint Statistical Meetings  (August 25, 2005) comments about Mack 
Shelley's talk "Education Research Meets the Gold Standard: Statistics, 
Education, And Research Methods after 'No Child Left Behind'" about experimental 
research in education 
   
Response to Comments from Mike Palij  (February 11, 2007) Some basic ideas of 
science. Novelty of experiments in education. Problematic nature of experiments 
in education. Necessity of experiments in education. Changing attitudes toward 
experiments in education. Opportunities for experiments in education. 
Appendices: A. Eight problems in experiments in education. B. Courses about 
experiments for education researchers. C. Can human performance or behavior be 
predicted from a person?s race? D. Specifying a repeated measurements analysis 
of variance. 
 
 
 
 
 
  Return to top.  
  Sums of Squares in
Unbalanced ANOVA  |  MatStat