Intuitive Biostatistics 
		 
	 

	 
		     
		 
			 
				  
				 This page describes the first edition of Intuitive Biostatistics. A  completely revised second edition  is now available. 
			 
			 
				  
				 Intuitive Biostatistics
					 "The book's title suggests that he can make biostatistics intuitive for non-statisticians (e.g. physicians, clinicians and nurses). After reading through it he has made a believer out of me! He introduces concepts through examples and touches on most of the important statistical methods that are used in the medical literature. ... My usual concern with such books is that concepts are oversimplified and the presentation is too cook-bookish. Amazingly that is not the case here. Motulsky carefully explains concepts such as confidence intervals, p-values, multiple comparison issues, Bayesian thinking and Bayesian controversy in a way that should be understandable to his intended audience." 
						? Michael R. Chernick, PhD (review posted on amazon.com)  
					 "I highly recommend this book for those needing a non-mathematical, explanatory introduction to biostatistics. It is well-written and provides wonderful clinical examples and biostatistical content...An excellent resource book for medical students and housestaff who are struggling along with the concepts; and for those of you who were wondering, it was surprisingly easy to read." 
						? Joseph Chu, M.D., M.P.H., book review of Intuitive Biostatistics, Teaching and Learning Medicine, 9:243, 1997.  
					 "This splendid book meets a major need in public health, medicine, and biomedical research training -- a user-friendly biostatistics text for non-mathematicians." 
						? Dr. Gilbert. S. Omenn, Dean; University of Washington School of Public Health and Community Medicine 
					 "Let me congratulate you for this unique jewel. I am a biologist, and always found statistics to be a bit confusing. Thanks to your book, statistics now makes sense. Top marks for an excellent work. I will recommend it highly to my students and colleagues." 
						? Prof. Gabriel Dorado; Dept. of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Cordoba, Spain 
				 
			 
			 
				 A new kind of statistics book 
				 Unlike statistics texts that emphasize mathematics, Intuitive Biostatistics focuses on proper scientific interpretation of statistical tests. The book is perfect for researchers, clinicians and students who need to understand statistical results published in biological and medical journals. Intuitive Biostatistics covers all the topics typically found in introductory texts, and adds several topics of particular interest to biologists - including multiple comparison tests, nonlinear regression and survival analysis. 
			 
			 
				 Read sample chapters 
				  ? Table of Contents  
					 ? Chapter 6. Survival Curves  
					 ? Chapter 12. Interpreting Significant and Not Significant P Values  
					 ? Chapter 13. Multiple Comparisons  
					 ? Chapter 33. Comparing Survival Curves  
					 ? Chapter 37. Choosing a Test  
				 
			 
			 
				 Order it! 
				 You may order Intuitive Biostatistics from GraphPad Software with a software purchase, or from any academic bookstore. More conveniently, you may  order it online  from Amazon.com. 
			 
			 
				 Publication details 
				 Author: Harvey Motulsky, President, GraphPad Software 
					Publisher:  Oxford University Press , New York, 1995 
					ISBN: 0-19-50-8607-4