Statistics How To 

 

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 
 
 
	 
    	 
  			  
			Statistics How To  
        	Elementary statistics for the rest of us!
         
  		    Search   
		
		 
			  Home  
              Topic Index  
  Calculators  
  Tables  
  Forums  
  About  
  Contact  
  Practically Cheating Statistics Handbook  
	
		 	
	 
    

			 
					
		
				 
						 Topic Index  

						 
													 

					 
                    							 
 
    
 ABOUT TRUST ONLINE  
 
 
 Calculators 
 
  Interquartile range calculator (IQR)  
  Permutations and combinations calculator  
  Variance and standard deviations calculator   
  Binomial Distribution Calculator  
 
 Tables 
 
  Z-table  
  Binomial Distribution Table  
  T-Distribution table  
  Chi Square Distribution Table  
  F-Table  
  Pearson Product-Moment Correlation (PPMC) Coefficient Table  
 
  Feel like Cheating at Statistics? This is the Statistics Handbook that your professor doesn’t want you to see. 
	So easy, it’s Practically Cheating. 
	Find out more »  
 Descriptive Statistics: The Basics 
 
  How to find the mean, mode, and median  
   How to classify a variable as discrete or continuous  
   How to classify a variable as quantitative or qualitative  (eHow) 
   How to make a frequency chart and determine frequency  (eHow) 
  How to read a box plot and find the five number summary including q1 and q2  
  How to find a five number summary  
  How to find an interquartile range  
  How to find an interquartile range on a boxplot  
  How to find sample variance and standard deviation  
  How to draw a cumulative frequency distribution table  
  What is a ! factorial ! ?  
 
 Probability 
 
  How to construct a probability distribution  
  Probability of selecting a person from a group or committee  
  How to find the probability of an event NOT happening  
  How to solve a question about probability frequency distribution  
  How to find the probability of a simple event happening  
   How to find the probability of randomly picking a certain number of items given a percentage  
  How to find the probability of group members choosing the same thing  
  How to find the probability of two dependent events occurring together  
  How to find the probability of an event occurring, given another event  
  How to use a probability tree (decision tree) to calculate odds  
  How to find the probability of drawing a card from a deck  
  How to figure out if something is a mutually exclusive event  
  How to tell the difference between dependent and independent events  
  Probability: dice rolling  
 
 Binomial Probability Distributions 
 
  How to determine if something is a binomial experiment  
  How to find the mean for a binomial probability distribution  
  Finding the expected value  
  Finding the standard deviation for a binomial distribution  
  How to solve a binomial distribution problem using the binomial formula  
  How to work a binomial distribution formula  
  How to use the binomial distribution calculator  
  How to read a binomial distribution table  
  What is the continuity correction factor?  
  Using a normal approximation to solve a binomial problem  
 
 Critical values and z-tables (also see Hypothesis Testing below) 
 
  How do I find a critical value?  
  How do I find the area under a normal distribution curve?  
  Normal distribution Word Problem Index  (dealing with a tricky word problem? Click here for an index to the six major types).  
  Hypothesis testing: How to find a critical value for a two-tailed test (EHow)  
  Hypothesis testing: How to find a critical value for a right tailed test . 
  Hypothesis testing: How to find a critical value for a left tailed test . 
 
 Central Limit Theorem 
 
  Central Limit Theorem Problem Index  
  What is the continuity correction factor?  
  Using a normal approximation to solve a binomial problem  
 
 Confidence Interval (CI) 
 
  How to Determine a Sample Size Given a CI and Width (Unknown Standard Deviation)  
  How to Determine a Sample Size Given a CI and Width (Known Standard Deviation)  
  How to Find a Confidence Interval (Population)  
  How to Find a Confidence Interval (Sample)  
  How to Find a Confidence Interval  (List of Data)  
  How to find a Confidence Interval (Two Populations, proportion)  
 
 Hypothesis Testing 
 
  How to decide if a hypothesis test is a one tailed test or a two tailed test  
  How to decide if a hypothesis is a left-tailed test or a right-tailed test  
  How to state the null hypothesis in statistics (Part One)  
  How to state the null hypothesis in statistics (Part Two)  
  How to find a critical value for a two-tailed test (EHow)  
  How to find a critical value for a right tailed test . 
  How to find a critical value for a left tailed test . 
  How to support or reject a null hypothesis  
  How to support or reject a null hypothesis (P-Value method)  
  How to support or reject a null hypothesis (for a proportion)  
  How to support or reject a null hypothesis (for a proportion/P-Value method).  
 
 Linear Regression 
 
  How to construct a scatter plot  
  How to calculate Pearson’s Correlation Coefficients  
  How to compute a linear regression test value 
  How to find the coefficient of determination  
  How to find a linear regression equation. 
  How to find a linear regression slope. 
 
 Chi-square tests 
 
   How to find a chi square (right tailed test)  
   How to find a chi square (left tailed test)  
 

 Feel like Cheating at Statistics? This is the Statistics Handbook that your professor doesn't want you to see. 
	So easy, it's Practically Cheating.
	Find out more » 
  Need more help? Ask on our free forums »  
                        					 
                     

											 
					
				 

				
		
	
			            
			 

			 
							
			 
				 
				 			  
 
    
 ABOUT TRUST ONLINE  
 
  
		   Categories 		 
	  binomial distribution  (13)
 
	  central limit theorem  (5)
 
	  Confidence Intervals  (8)
 
	  critical values and z-tables  (21)
 
	  Descriptions  (1)
 
	  Descriptive statistics  (10)
 
	  F-test  (2)
 
	  Hypothesis testing  (13)
 
	  Linear Regression  (8)
 
	  mean  (1)
 
	  mean mode median  (4)
 
	  Microsoft Excel  (2)
 
	  Normal Distribution  (23)
 
	  Other Distributions  (1)
 
	  Pre-statistics  (1)
 
	  Probability  (21)
 
	  sample size  (2)
 
	  standard deviation  (3)
 
	  t-distribution  (3)
 
	  The basics  (18)
 
	  TI-83  (23)
 
	  TI-89  (27)
 
	  Two Populations  (2)
 
	  Uncategorized  (1)
 
		 
 		 		 Recent posts 		 
				  Z-Table: Area to the Left of Curve  
				  What is a Beta Density Function?  
				  How to Use the TI 83 for a Hypothesis Test of a Mean  
				  How to Get The Mean and Standard Deviation For a Binomial Probability Distribution With a TI 83 Calculator  
				  How to Find a T distribution on a TI 83  
				 
		   Other Math Sites 
	 
  Wild About Math 
Wild About Math is all about making math fun and accessible. 

	 
 
				 
			 			 

		 
	  
			© Statistics How To 2009-2011. All rights Reserved.