The Data and Story Library 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 The Data and Story Library 
 

 

 
 
 
DASL (pronounced "dazzle") is an online library of  datafiles  and  stories  that illustrate the use of basic
statistics methods. We hope to provide data from a wide variety of topics so that
statistics teachers can find real-world examples that will be interesting to
their students.  Use DASL's powerful search engine to locate the story or
datafile of interest.
 
 

 
  
 

 
   
 Buy doxycycline hyclate 
 Buy doxycycline generic 
 Buy doxycycline hyclate online 
 Buy clomid 100mg 
 Buy clomid in the united states 
 Buy clomid in uk 
 Buy clomid no prescription 
 Buy clomid online 
 Buy clomid without prescription 
 Buy clomid where 
 Cheap clomid 
 Clomid generic 
 Discount clomid 
 Order clomid online 
 Cheap doxycycline 
 Doxycycline 100 mg 
 Doxycycline online pharmacy 
 Doxycycline no prescription 
 Order doxycycline hyclate 
 Buy nolvadex online 
 Buy nolvadex uk 
 Buy nolvadex without prescription 
 Cheapest nolvadex 
 Nolvadex 10mg 
 Nolvadex 20mg 
 Nolvadex online buy 
 Nolvadex without prescription 
 Tamoxifen nolvadex 
 Propecia for sale 
 Propecia price 
 Buy online propecia 
 Buy cheap propecia 
 Cheap propecia online 
 Buy propecia in canada 
 Buy propecia online usa 
 Buy propecia online without prescription 
 Buy propecia uk 
 Cheap propecia no prescription 
 Order cheap propecia 
 Buy sildenafil cheap 
 Buy sildenafil without prescription 
 Buy sildenafil 
 Canadian sildenafil citrate 
 Cheap sildenafil citrate online cheap 
 Cheapest sildenafil citrate from india 
 Sildenafil 50 mg 
 Sildenafil citrate 100 mg 
 Sildenafil citrate buy 
 Sildenafil citrate discount 
 Sildenafil citrate generic 
 Sildenafil citrate online pharmacy 
 Sildenafil online no prescription 
 Buy tadalafil discount 
 Buy cheap generic tadalafil 
 Buy tadalafil in the usa 
 Buy tadalafil pharmacy online 
 Cheap tadalafil online 
 Order cheap tadalafil 
 Buy Tadacip 
 Buy viagra with discount 
 Discount generic viagra blue pill 
 Where to buy viagra online 
 Viagra 100mg 
 50mg viagra sale 
 Buy viagra in australia 
 Buy viagra in england 
 Buy viagra in london 
 Buy viagra in mexico 
 Buy viagra in new zealand 
 Buy viagra in toronto 
 Buy viagra in united kingdom 
 
 
 
 
   
     
            
     
     
   
     
            
     
   
   
     
            
     
   
 


 
   
     
            
     
   


   
     
            
     
   


   
     
            
     
   
 

 
 
 



Overview


  
 
Teachers use examples to illustrate statistics concepts. A good example can make
a lesson on a particular statistics method vivid and relevant.  DASL is designed
to help teachers locate and identify datafiles for teaching. We hope that DASL
will also serve as an archive for datasets from the statistics literature.

 
The archive contains two types of files, stories and datafiles.  Each story
applies a particular statistical method to a set of data. Each 
datafile has one or more associated stories.  The data can be downloaded as a
space- or tab-delimited table of text, easily read by most statistics programs. 

 
Stories are classified according to statistical methods and major topics of
interest.  Power search through DASL's stories and datafiles in five different
ways.
 
 
 Title Search:  Searches through all of the story titles.
 Method Search:  Statistical methods such as regression or ANOVA.
 Topic Search:  Topics such as psychology or health.
 Datafile Subject Search:  Data subjects such as finance or astronomy.
 Full-text Search:  Searches through all of the stories and datafiles.
 

 
The first four specialized searches are slightly faster than the full-text
search.  Use these searches if you know what you want.  The full-text search is
helpful if you're interested in something more general (e.g., Fisher).   Help Search  provides information on using
the search engines and provides a few examples.
 

 

Final Comments & Thanks


  
 
DASL is part of larger effort to enhance the teaching of statistics using
computers.  A related project, the  Electronic
Encyclopedia of Statistical Exercises and Examples  (EESEE), offers a
self-study application.  Another wonderful location to visit is the  Chance
Database.   Chance also provides a link to several other Statistics Related
internet sources such as the American Statistical Association, International
Association for Statistical Computing and more.

 
The hard disk storage space for DASL is generously provided by 
 StatLib .

 
Thank you for visiting DASL.  Please send  us
your comments and suggestions. 
 

 




 

 
Main Menu | 
 Power Search 
 
 List all topics  | 
 List all methods  | 
 List all datafile subjects 
 
 DASL Help  | 
 Submit your story  | 
 Copyright 
 

 
© 1996 The Data and Story Library