About Pediatrics - Pediatric Parenting and Medical Advice     

 

  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
			
				 
 
   Home    Health    Pediatrics   
        

       Pediatrics   
     Search   
   Pediatrics    By Age    Medical Info    Parenting      
   Share       
 
    
   Must Reads    Pediatric Problem Solver    Symptom Checker    Kids Height Predictor    BMI Calculator    Measles Symptoms  
         Guide since 2001   Vincent Iannelli, M.D.  Pediatrics Guide    Sign up for My Newsletter    My Bio       Headlines    Forum        Browse Topic    Ages and Stages    Expert Q&A    Parenting Advice    Medical Advice    Ask a Pediatrician    Find a Doctor    ADHD    Child Abuse    Childhood Obesity    Growth Charts    Quizzes and Polls    Tools and Calculators    Recalls and Safety Alerts    Resources for Pediatricians    Cold and Flu Season  
    Take a Quiz     Best Foods for Kids Quiz   Take a quiz about the best foods for kids and other parenting topics to help test your parenting knowledge and skills.   Read More   Parenting Quizzes    Developmental Milestones Quiz    Child Safety Quiz    Stranger Danger Quiz      Ages and Stages Photos        Two Weeks          Six Months     About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by the  Medical Review Board 
        Flu Vaccine Options   Which flu vaccine is right for your kids? Should they get a flu shot, FluMist, or how about the new flu vaccine options, like the high-dose flu shot?   Read More   2011-2012 Flu Season    Flu Season    Flu Symptoms    Avoiding the Flu    Pediatrics Spotlight10         Vaccines in the News  
 Monday November 28, 2011   It is not unusual for vaccines to make the news, but today there was news on a lot of different vaccine topics from the American Academy of Pediatrics. 

 One study, "Immunogenicity and Safety of MMRV and PCV-7 Administered Concomitantly in Healthy Children," should reassure many parents who are worried about vaccines. The study, which will be printed in the December issue of Pediatrics, found that it was safe to give toddlers  ProQuad  (a vaccine that combines MMR and Varivax) and  Prevnar  at the same time. The researchers found this combination of shots to be well tolerated and  "highly immunogenic" as just over 1,000 children were followed for 28 days after they received the shots together or six weeks apart. 

 The AAP also released a policy statement with the latest ACIP recommendations for the use of meningococcal vaccines, including  Menactra  and Menveo. The policy statement talks about the rationale for some of latest recommendations, including the addition of a primary vaccine series for high risk infants and a booster dose for teens at age 16 years if they got their first dose when they were 11 to 12 years old. 

 Another vaccine study, this one on the varicella vaccination program, should also be reassuring to many parents. The study found that following the routine use of the chicken pox vaccine, from 1995 to 2008, chicken pox decreased almost 90% in infants, who are too young to be vaccinated. This shows a "substantial indirect benefit" to getting kids vaccinated, which is especially important since chicken pox can be a serious infection for infants, "who are at increased risk for varicella-related hospitalization and death compared with older children." 

 We will have to wait to see the effects of one last study, "Washington State Pediatricians' Attitudes Toward Alternative Childhood Immunization Schedules." The internet-based survey found that 77% of pediatricians who responded reported that their parents sometimes or frequently requested  alternative childhood immunization schedules . And 61% of the pediatricians were comfortable with following an alternative immunization schedule. Perhaps that is why Washington had the highest rate of vaccine exemptions for kids entering kindergarten during the 2009 to 2010 school year. 

 Of course it is not just vaccines that have been in the news lately. Vaccine preventable diseases have made the news a lot too, especially the  measles outbreaks  of the past year, at least a few of which were in Washington. 

 Related: 
 Follow us on  Twitter  and  Facebook  
  School Vaccine Exemptions  
  Vaccine Facts  
  Vaccine Preventable Diseases  
  Vaccine Books   
   Comments  (0)   Permalink  
 
	 Share 
 
 

	  More Measles Complications Reported  
 Saturday November 26, 2011   Most people are well aware of the measles outbreaks that we have been seeing the last few years. 

 We are up to well above 220 cases in the United States, a 15 year record, but over 30,000 in Europe. 

 Not surprisingly, those high numbers of measles cases in Europe are accompanied by a fairly high rate of complications - 8 deaths, 16 cases of measles encephalitis, and 915 cases of pneumonia. 

 It should also not be surprising that most cases in Europe are in unvaccinated (82%) or incompletely vaccinated (13%) people. 

 What is both surprising and disturbing though, is that in addition to reporting an addition 1,000 cases of measles last month, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control reported two cases of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE), a late fatal complication of measles. 

 One of the cases is in a six-year-old girl who had developed measles when she was seven-months-old and too young to get an MMR vaccine. Although she was only just diagnosed in October, she is already unable to walk and talk and has to be fed via a gastric tube. 

 The other case is in a 13-year-old girl who died in October. It is thought that she developed measles as an infant after being exposed to an unvaccinated 11-year-old boy at her doctor's office. 

 Unfortunately, we can almost certainly expect many more cases of SSPE in the years to come in the children who recovered from this year's large measles epidemic in Europe and elsewhere around the world. 

 Related: 
 Follow us on  Twitter  and  Facebook   
  International Measles Outbreaks  
  Measles Timeline  
  Measles  
  Vaccine Books   
   Comments  (0)   Permalink  
 
	 Share 
 
 
  Fruit and Vegetable Consumption Study  
 Wednesday November 23, 2011   Eating vegetables has been in the news this week, with the continuation of rules that classify pizza as a vegetable. 

 With the latest report from the 2010 National Youth Physical Activity and Nutrition Study (NYPANS) showing that few high school students eat their recommended number of fruits and vegetables each day, maybe we need to reclassify other foods as vegetables too. If hamburgers and hotdogs were vegetables, more high school students would do better on the survey. 

 Of course, moving foods into new  foods groups  won't do anything to improve these kids' nutrition. You can call a can of soda a glass of milk, but the child who drinks it still won't get any calcium, vitamin D, or protein like he would if he drank a real glass of milk. 


 Nutrition Study 


 In this latest nutrition study, high school students were asked "how many times during the previous 7 days they had consumed the following: fruit, 100% fruit juice, green salad, potatoes (not including French fries, fried potatoes, or potato chips), carrots, and other vegetables." 

 The results, reported by the CDC today, showed that "the median number of times per day that U.S. high school students consumed fruits and vegetables was only 1.2 times for both fruits and vegetables." The results also indicate that it is "likely that the majority of students are not meeting the daily fruit and vegetable recommendations for adolescents." 

 How do we get kids to eat more fruits and vegetables? 

 The CDC report suggests that we "include school salad bars, gardens, farm-to-school programs, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, and increasing the amount and variety of fruits and vegetables offered during school meals." It doesn't say anything about making pizza a vegetable because it has a little tomato paste though. 

 What can you do? In addition to making  fruits  and  vegetables  more available at home, how about offering more fruits and vegetables as a part of your  Thanksgiving dinner , especially some that you haven't tried before. 

 Related: 
 Follow us on  Twitter  and  Facebook   
  Let's Move! Salad Bars to Schools  
  Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food  
  Communities Putting Prevention to Work  
  USDA Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program   
   Comments  (0)   Permalink  
 
	 Share 
 
 
  Yet Another Bumbo Baby Seat Warning  
 Tuesday November 22, 2011   Bumbo Baby Seats are popular, with almost 4 million having been sold since 2003. Parents like them and babies seem to like them too. 

 They can be dangerous though if they aren't used properly, including that you don't use them on a raised surface, like a table, countertop, or chair. According to the Consumer Product Safety Commission, "Infants aged 3-10 months old have fallen out of the Bumbo seat and suffered skull fractures and other injuries." 

 And these injuries continue despite the  Bumbo recall in 2007 . Since then, there have been 45 additional incidents, including 17 skull fractures. That is about the same number of incidents that occurred before the recall - 46 falls and 14 skull fractures. Maybe that shouldn't be too surprising though, since that recall simply involved adding a new warning label to the Bumbo - "WARNING - Prevent Falls; Never use on any elevated surface."  It didn't actually change the design of the product at all. 

 The Bumbo isn't a baby sitter. Use it on the floor and only when you can be nearby to make sure your baby doesn't fall out. This is important because the CPSC reports "an additional 50 reports of infants falling or maneuvering out of Bumbo seats used on the floor and at unknown elevations." Remember that even on the floor, your baby can fall out of a Bumbo if they arch their back or move around too much, and either hit the floor or a nearby object. 

 Do you have a  Bumbo Baby Seat ? How do you use it? Do you ever misuse it? 

 Related: 
 Follow us on  Twitter  and  Facebook  
  Baby Proofing  
  Ages and Stages Photo Gallery  
  Safety Tips   
   Comments  (1)   Permalink  
 
	 Share 
 
 
  See More    
 
    Free Pediatrics Newsletter!           Sign Up    Discuss in my forum                
  
 
   Explore Pediatrics   Must Reads    Pediatric Problem Solver    Symptom Checker    Kids Height Predictor    BMI Calculator    Measles Symptoms  
  Most Popular    Ideal Body Weight Calculator for Kids and Adults    Autism Screening Quiz - Autism Signs in Toddlers    Height Predictor - How Tall Will My Kids Be?    Am I Fat? - A Body Weight Quiz     Diabetes Symptoms - Symptoms of Diabetes Screening Quiz  
     Free Pediatrics Newsletter!           Sign Up   By Category    Ages and Stages    Expert Q&A    Parenting Advice    Medical Advice    Ask a Pediatrician    Find a Doctor    ADHD    Child Abuse    Childhood Obesity    Growth Charts    Quizzes and Polls    Tools and Calculators    Recalls and Safety Alerts    Resources for Pediatricians    Cold and Flu Season  
              Pediatrics      Home    Health    Pediatrics       Most Popular    Latest Articles    RSS         Also from About.com:    Calorie Count - Nutrition Database       Advertise on About.com    Our Story    News & Events    Work at About    SiteMap    All Topics    Reprints    Help      Write for About    User Agreement    Ethics Policy    Patent Info.    Privacy Policy    Your Ad Choices      ©2011 About.com. All rights reserved.   A part of  The New York Times Company .      We comply with the  HONcode standard  for trustworthy health  information:  verify here .