Children's Hospital | PBS 


  



  
  
  



  


 
 

 



    
      




        






  
  


  
   
 
  
 



      
  
   

      


  

 
  

 
     
    
  

    
  
    
  
  
                                                  
  
    
  
  
  
  
    
  
    
 
 


  
 



 
	 
		  
		 



 
	 
		  
	 
 



 
	 
		  
	 
 
 
	 
		  
	 
 
Children's Hospital is all about kids, families, and doctors, coming to terms with illness and injury. This site lets you explore their worlds, and related topics.


 
	 
		  
	 
 



 
	 
		    
	 
	 
		    
		 
		 
			 
				  
			 
			 
				  
				 
Learn how to explain illnesses using kid-friendly-words.  Plus, tips on getting kids to take their medicine, and questions to ask your doctor before making decisions.

			 
				 
					  
				 
			 
				 
					 
						    
						  
						  IN ENGLISH  
						  
						    
						  
						  EN ESPA„OL  
					 
				 
				 
			 
			 
				  
			 
		 
		 
	 
 


 
	 
		  
	 
 


 
	 
		    
		    
		    
	 
 



		 
		 



 
	 
		  
		    
	 
 
 
	 
		    
	 
 



 
	 
		  
		  
		 


 
	 
		  
	 
 
At Children's Memorial Hospital, kids learn to cope with deadly diseases and serious injuries ? and they still manage to enjoy being "just kids."
 
	 
		  
	 
 
Meanwhile, the Hospital's doctors and researchers work to find new cures and therapies. 
 
	 
		  
	 
 
Meet all these people, and learn about their lives.
 
	 
		  
	 
	 
		    
		  
		  READ THE INSPIRING STORIES  
	 
	 
		  
	 
 


 
	 
		  
	 
 
		
		 		
		  
	 
 
 
	 
		  
	 
 



 
	 
		  
	 
 


 
	 
		 
		
		 
			 
				    
			 
			 
				    
				 
				 
					 
						  
						 
						Meet the staff and explore the hospital units.
						 
							 
								  
							 
							 
								    
								  
								  MORE  
							 
							 
								  
							 
						 
						 
					 
				 
				 
			 
		 
		
		 
		  
		 
		
		 
			 
				    
			 
			 
				    
				 
				 
					 
						  
						 
						Get to know the children and their families.
						 
							 
								  
							 
							 
								    
								  
								  MORE  
							 
							 
								  
							 
						 
						 
					 
				 
				 
			 
		 
		
		 
	 
 



  
 
	 
		  
	 
 
  
 
	 
		  
	 
 

 
	 
		  
		 
  

		 
		  
	 
 



		 
		  
	 
 


 
	 
		  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			 
				 
				 
					 
						  
					 
				 
				Support exceptional programs like Children's Hospital