Looking to the heavens: climate change experiments | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 12 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Hydrocarbons: a fossil but not (yet) extinct  
  Warrior against pseudoscience: Daniella Muallem  
  Plastics in cars: polymerisation and recycling  
  Is climate change all gloom and doom? Introducing stabilisation wedges  
  Translations - from today’s science to tomorrow’s medicine in Berlin-Buch  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 12  » Looking to the heavens: climate change experiments 			             Looking to the heavens: climate change experiments                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by rau on 12 August 2009 

 



  
   
    
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				Image courtesy of Alohaspirit / iStockphoto 
			 
				 
					In the second of two articles, Dudley Shallcross, Tim Harrison, Steve Henshaw and Linda Sellou offer chemistry and physics experiments to harness the Sun’s energy and measure carbon dioxide levels. 
				 
					Discussions of climate change in the science classroom can be very wide-ranging, but different sources of energy and their consequences will probably have a role. The topics raised are likely to include different fuels that can be used, how effective they are and how they are produced; alternatives to combustion; solar energy; and the importance of carbon dioxide in global warming. Below, we suggest two laboratory activities to support physics and chemistry lessons on climate change. Three activities relating to fuels were published in  Shallcross et al (2009) . 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	1) Grätzel cells: energy from sunlight 
 
	The Sun, of course, is the source of most used energy on Earth, besides geothermal and nuclear energy – including that released from fossil fuels or modern ‘green’ fuels. But sunlight can also be used directly as a source of energy, as can be demonstrated in the classroom using Grätzel cells, also called ‘nanocrystalline dye solar cells’ or ‘organic solar cells’. Named after their inventor, the Swiss engineer Michael Grätzel, Grätzel cells convert sunlight directly into electricity by artificial photosynthesis using natural dyes found, for example, in cherries, blackberries, raspberries and blackcurrants. These purple-red dyes, known as anthocyanins  w1  , are very easy for school students to extract from fruits and leaves by simply boiling them in a small volume of water and filtering. 
 
	These cells are very promising because they are made of low-cost materials and do not need elaborate apparatus to manufacture. Although their conversion efficiency is less than that of the best thin-film cells, their price/performance ratio (kWh/M2/annum) is high enough to allow them to compete with electricity generation from fossil fuels. Commercial applications, which were held up due to chemical stability problems, are now forecast in the European Union Photovoltaic Roadmap  w2   to be a potentially significant contributor to renewable electricity generation by 2020. 
 
	Grätzel cells separate the two functions provided by silicon in a traditional cell design: normally, the silicon acts as the source of photoelectrons, as well as providing the electric field to separate the charges and create a current. In the Grätzel cell, the bulk of the semiconductor is used solely for charge transport, while the photoelectrons are provided from a separate photosensitive dye (the anthocyanin). Charge separation occurs at the surfaces between the dye, semiconductor and electrolyte. 
 
	The dye molecules are quite small (at the nanometre scale), so to capture a reasonable amount of the incoming light, the layer of dye molecules needs to be fairly thick – much thicker than the molecules themselves. To address this problem, a nanomaterial is used as a scaffold to hold large numbers of the dye molecules in a 3D matrix, increasing the number of molecules for any given surface area of the cell. In existing designs, this scaffolding is provided by the semiconductor material (titanium oxide), which serves double duty. 
 
	Grätzel cells can be made from scratch, but getting hold of the pre-treated glass that makes one side conductible is not easy. Moreover, baking the titanium dioxide paste into the glass surface requires the use of a furnace for about 24 hours. Therefore, it is easier to use commercial kits, such as those available from the Dutch company Mansolar  w3  , which allow six Grätzel cells to be assembled per set, costing approximately 80 Euros. If you already have some experience using the required equipment and prefer to build your own Grätzel cells, however, you will find an outline of the required steps below: 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
						Take two glass plates, each about the size of a microscope slide, one side of which has been treated with indium tin oxide to render it electroconductible. 
					 
					 
						One plate needs to have titanium dioxide baked onto its uncoated side. The titanium dioxide forms a highly porous structure with a very high surface area, to which the dye can bind. A word of caution: it is very easy to scratch the titanium dioxide powder off the glass plate, and whilst you can purchase titanium dioxide paste, it is inconvenient to bake the plates for a considerable time with a new coating in a furnace. Storage is therefore a consideration. The easiest solution is to purchase the materials ready-made. 
					 
					 
						Cover the other plate with a layer of pencil graphite by simply rubbing a pencil over the uncoated surface of the glass. 
				 
			 
			 
				   
				A Grätzel cell. Click to enlarge image 
				Image courtesy of Marcus Medley, Bristol ChemLabS 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
		Fill a Petri dish with anthocyanin dye. Soak the photosensitive anthocyanin dye onto the titanium dioxide by placing the corresponding plate in the Petri dish, then dry with a hair drier. The dye is left covalently bonded to the surface of the titanium dioxide. After use, it is easy to remove the old anthocyanin pigments using ethanol or propanone (acetone). 
	 
	 
		Assemble the cell as follows from bottom to top:
		 
			 
				At the bottom will be the graphite plate, graphite side up, serving as a cathode. 
			 
				Use a solution of iodine dissolved in potassium iodide as an electrolyte and squirt between the plates. 
			 
				On top will be the dye-coated titanium dioxide plate, indium tin oxide side up. The indium tin oxide will serve as transparent anode. 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				   
				A close-up diagram of the Grätzel cell. Click to enlarge image 
				Image courtesy of Nicola Graf 
			 
				 
					 
						Use a paper clip to keep the plates together. 
					 
					 
						Use two crocodile clips to clip the overlapping pieces of glass (top and bottom, see image) of the Grätzel cell and connect with two electrical leads to a multimeter to take readings. 
				 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
		Shine light onto the cell. If investigating this apparatus in northern Europe during the winter months, a microscope lamp or a desk lamp will be useful to provide the light.  
	 
	 
		Use a light meter to determine the light intensity falling on the Grätzel cells. 
 
 
	For amusement, the Grätzel cells can be used to power different mechanisms. For example, you can replace the batteries in a calculator with leads that allow several small Grätzel cells in series to power it. Alternatively, you can also power the music circuits from birthday greetings cards or small motors with the cells. 
 
	Students may carry out a number of investigations with these cells. These include how the current or voltage produced varies with: 
 
	 
		Anthocyanins from different sources 
	 
		Plant pigments other than anthocyanins 
	 
		The concentration of the anthocyanin solution used 
	 
		The area of the titanium dioxide layer exposed to anthocyanins 
	 
		The temperature of the cells 
	 
		The frequency of light (using coloured filters) 
	 
		Light intensity (using a microscope lamp as a light source) 
	 
		Several cells in series or in parallel. 
 
 
	Details on the chemistry behind these cells can be found in an online article  w4  . 
 
	2) Detecting atmospheric carbon dioxide levels 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					CO 2  is the most commonly known greenhouse gas and one of the major concerns in discussions of climate change. One might well ask how levels of CO 2  are measured in air samples, particularly as their concentrations are so low: the answer is infra-red spectroscopy. Carbon dioxide molecules absorb specific frequencies of infra-red radiation, which affect the covalent bonds between the carbon and oxygen atoms, depending on the energy. Low energies cause a bond-bending motion, and high energies cause bond stretching. The frequencies at which this occurs are within the infra-red part of the electromagnetic spectrum (between 4000 and 650 wavenumbers). A wavenumber is the reciprocal of wavelength and is a unit commonly used in infra-red spectroscopy. This effect can be used to determine the CO 2  concentration as follows. 
				 
					There are two main types of carbon dioxide sensor (see  Harrison et al, 2006 ). The more expensive research sensors pump air through the sensor, whereas the cheaper devices rely on the diffusion of air. Air passes into an absorption cell, which is effectively a small darkened cylinder within the sensor. 
			 
			 
				   
				Bond bending and stretching. Click to enlarge image 
				Image courtesy of Marcus Medley, Bristol ChemLabS 
		 
	 
 
 
	At one end of the absorption cell, there is an infra-red light source coupled to a fixed wavelength filter, so as to provide a narrow band source of infra-red light around 2350 cm -1  (wavenumbers). At the other end of the tube, there is an infra-red detector or photon counter that measures the infra-red light intensity. The more CO 2  molecules in the air sample, the more infra-red radiation is absorbed in the cell, and the less infra-red radiation reaches the detector. For small absorptions, the Beer-Lambert law tells us that 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				A close-up of a carbon dioxide sensor 
				Image courtesy of Bristol ChemLabS 
			 
				 
					Concentration = (1-(I/I 0 )) / ?l 
					where: 
				 
					 
						l is the path length (length of the cell) 
					 
						? is the absorption cross-section for CO 2  at the wavelength being used and is known to a high accuracy 
					 
						(I/I 0 ) is the ratio of infra-red radiation arriving at the detector when it has an air sample in it (I) to when the cell is empty (I 0 ) 
				 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	I 0  is not measured for each reading, but will be measured frequently to check that there are no appreciable fluctuations in the instrument’s infra-red light intensity. 
 
	Students who have used such sensors, on loan from the University of Bristol, have been surprised that the measured CO 2  level inside an empty classroom is much greater than that outside, well above 0.037% (0.037/100 x 1 x 106 = 370 ppm) reported for the CO 2  atmospheric concentration in some textbooks. New school buildings in the UK appear to have windows that are not designed to be opened, so the exhaled CO 2  accumulates! 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					The CO 2  sensors that we use with students are tuned to the CO 2  ?3 asymmetric bond stretch at 2349 wavenumbers ( Harrison et al, 2006 ). An asymmetric stretch is where the double bonds between carbon and oxygen (C=O) absorb energy, and one of the two bonds lengthens while the other one contracts (see diagram). For CO 2  there can only be one asymmetric stretch. This particular bond stretch is important because carbon dioxide is the only molecule present in high quantities in the atmosphere to absorb at 2349 wavenumbers. Therefore, only absorption by CO 2  can cause a change in infra-red light intensity at this wavelength. 
			 
			 
				   
				A diagram of an absorption cell from a CO 2  sensor. Click to enlarge image 
				Image courtesy of Bristol ChemLabS 
		 
	 
 
 
	Bristol ChemLabS would be interested to hear from schools across Europe that would like to borrow one of these easy-to-use meters for research into the carbon dioxide concentration of air samples. Although the instruments are commercially available, they are quite expensive and thus not commonly available in schools or colleges. 
 
	References 
 
	  Harrison T, Shallcross D, Henshaw S (2006) Detecting CO 2  – the hunt for greenhouse-gas emissions. Chemistry Review 15: 27-30 
 
	  Shallcross D, Harrison T (2008a) Climate change modelling in the classroom. Science in School 9: 28-33.  www.scienceinschool.org/2008/issue9/climate  
 
	  Shallcross D, Harrison T (2008b) Practical demonstrations to augment climate change lessons. Science in School 10: 46-50.  www.scienceinschool.org/2008/issue10/climate  
 
	  Shallcross D, Harrison T, Henshaw S, Sellou L (2009) Fuelling interest: climate change experiments. Science in School 11: 38-43.  www.scienceinschool.org/2009/issue11/climate  
 
	Web references 
 
	  w1 – For more information on anthocyanins and their natural functions, see Wikipedia:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthocyanin  
 
	  w2 – The 2002 European Union Photovoltaic Roadmap can be downloaded from the PV-NET website ( http://paris.fe.uni-lj.si/pvnet ) or here:  http://tinyurl.com/n8cwfv  
 
	  w3 – A supplier for Grätzel cell kits is the Dutch company Mansolar:  www.mansolar.com  
 
	  w4 – To find out more about the chemistry behind Grätzel cells, see the Royal Society of Chemistry website ( www.rsc.org ) or here:  http://tinyurl.com/mr3bec  
 
	Resources 
 
	For a full list of Science in School articles about climate change, see:  www.scienceinschool.org/climatechange  
 
	For a full list of Science in School articles about energy, see:  www.scienceinschool.org/energy  
 
	SchoolCO2Web offers information and teaching material for measuring and sharing carbon dioxide data across schools in Europe:  http://fwn-school-co2-net.hosting.rug.nl  
 
 
	Dudley Shallcross is a professor in atmospheric chemistry, Tim Harrison is a school teacher fellow, and Linda Sellou and Steve Henshaw are both postdoctoral teaching assistants at the School of Chemistry, University of Bristol, UK. The school teacher fellowship is a position for a secondary-school teacher that was created to bridge the gap between secondary schools and universities, and to use the resources of the School of Chemistry to promote chemistry regionally, nationally and internationally. For more information about modelling climate change or about the post of school teacher fellow, please contact Dudley Shallcross ( d.e.shallcross@bristol.ac.uk ) or Tim Harrison ( t.g.harrison@bristol.ac.uk ). 
 
	 
		Review 
	 
		The article is a good complement to the previous trilogy of climate change articles by the same authors, on modelling climate ( Shallcross et al, 2008a ) and classroom experiments (Shallcross et al,  2008b ,  2009 ). This time, the authors highlight the technological side of the climate change issue. They propose a hands-on activity as a possible alternative to conventional solar cells and an investigation of the CO 2  content in different environments using professional equipment that they offer to lend to schools. 
	 
		I recommend this set of articles to secondary-school science teachers looking for a full set of didactical materials to address the complex topic of climate change, global warming and energy resources. The style is plain enough for non-native English speakers, and the web references allow further learning on the subject. The article is also a valuable starting point for planning a stimulating interdisciplinary science curriculum. 
	 
		Possible comprehension questions include: 
	 
		 
			Which of the following statements about anthocyanins is true?
			 
				 
					they can perform artificial photosynthesis 
				 
					they perform photosynthesis in plants 
				 
					they are used in thin-film cells 
				 
					they are chemically stable 
			 
		 
		 
		 
			Which of the following statements about titanium dioxide is false?
			 
				 
					it acts as a semiconductor 
				 
					it provides a 3D scaffold for the dye molecules 
				 
					it has to be baked on the glass surface 
				 
					it is electro-conductible 
			 
		 
		 
		 
			Carbon dioxide sensors can measure
			 
				 
					the greenhouse effect 
				 
					infra-red light absorption 
				 
					air pollution 
				 
					UV light absorption 
			 
		 
	 
	 
		Giulia Realdon, Italy 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				   
			 
				   
			 
				   
			 
				   
		 
	 
 
 
	  
   

   
     
              Teaching activities    Chemistry    Education    Engineering    Interdisciplinary    Physics    Climate change    Energy    Issue 12    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 8220 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

   Comments   
 

   
  
      Related teaching activity: solar cells in drinking straws  
    
        Mon, 2011-11-07 17:25 — rau
  
  
  
     
       The 'Solar Spark' website, run by the SUPERGEN Excitonic Solar Cells Consortium, a group of research scientists from eight UK universities working together to do scientific research on excitonic solar cells, offers a teaching activity to make a solar cell in a drinking straw out of cheap and readily accessible materials. The mechanism is similar to that used in a dye-sensitised solar cell (see the Grätzel cell, above), but uses different electrolyte and electrode materials to demonstrate the concept. 
For instructions, the equipment list and teacher's notes, as well as for a wide range of further teaching activities and background information about solar energy, see:  http://www.thesolarspark.co.uk/?page=forTeachers&teachersPage=forTeacher...  
     

   

          Login  or  register  to post comments 
  
   
             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note