Online help | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   
 



 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
   Home   » Online help 
                     Online help           
          
                    
            

 



            Last updated Wed, 2011-08-17 15:25 — sis
      
   
     The Science in School website has a lot of features - do you know (and use) them all? 
	 
	   Browsing by  language ,  category ,  topic ,   series  or  keyword  
       Browsing for specific  articles    
        Simple  or  advanced searching  by keyword 
	   Subscribing to the  email alert  or  print journal  
	   Using  DOIs  
	   Downloading  Nature   articles  
	   Using  RSS feeds  
       Using  QR codes  
	   
    Languages 
 All Science in School articles are submitted, reviewed, edited and published in English. Thereafter, with the valuable help of a growing group of volunteers,  many articles are translated into other European languages and published on the Science in School website, to make them available to a wider readership. To list all the articles in a particular language, click on the relevant flag in the header, visible on every page. The flag corresponding to the language you have selected appears surrounded by a black square. 
 If you do not click on any flag, the default selection is English (see below).  
  
 For a full list of languages, see  here . 
 If you are interested in helping us translate articles, see our  guidelines for translators . 
	   Categories 
 When you visit our website, you might be looking for a particular type of article - perhaps teaching activity or a cutting-edge science article. To list all articles in that category, use the category links in the header, visible on every page. 
  
 If you do not select a category, articles from all categories will be displayed when you select a language or topic from the header. The selected category will appear underlined. Note that you can only select either a category or a topic through the header, not both. 
 For a full list of categories, click on ‘…more’ at the right-hand side of the ‘Categories’ bar, or see  here . 
 For more selection options, use the  Browse articles  function. 
   Topics 
 If you are looking for a particular topic of article - perhaps physics, astronomy or primary science, you can browse the articles of interest using the topics links in the header, visible on every page. 
  
 If you do not select a topic, articles from all topics will be displayed when selecting a language or category from the header. The selected topic will appear underlined. Note that you can only select either a topic or a category through the header, not both. For a full list of topics, click on ‘…more’ at the right-hand side of the ‘Topics’ bar, or  see  here . 
 For more selection options, use the  Browse articles  function. 
   Series 
 Some but not all articles are also assigned to series. These are: 
  Biodiversity  
   Climate change  
   Energy  
   Evolution  
   Fusion  
   Japan  
   Pencil project . 
 Clicking on any of the links above will take you to a list of all the articles in that series. 
   Keywords 
 At the end of all articles are a list of keywords defining the language, category, issue, topic(s), series (if applicable) and EIROforum institution (if applicable) associated with the article. For example,      English, scientist profile, Issue 16, biology and biodiversity. These keywords are hyperlinked: clicking on one of them will open a list of all articles associated with that keyword. 
   Browse articles 
 The Browse articles function allows you to search for articles by specifying a combination of characteristics: languages, categories, issues, article series and topics. You can choose to have your results displayed either as a list of titles or as a list of the full teasers with teaser images. To access this useful tool, click the ‘Browse articles’ link in the header of every page or see  here . 
  Note that the 'Browse articles' feature does not allow you to use a keyword. For that, you will need to use either the  Simple  or  Advanced search . 
   Simple search 
 You can search the Science in School website for particular keywords. To do so, just enter them in the search field at the top right of every page and click the ‘Search’ button. Alternatively, see  here . 
 Please note that you have to enter at least one keyword with at least three characters, and that wildcard searches are not possible. This means that the search will only find entire words, not parts of a word. 
   Advanced search 
 For more specific searches, you may find our  ‘Advanced search’  function useful. You can find it by clicking on the ‘Search’ button at the top right of every page and then opening up the Advanced search by clicking on ‘Advanced search’. 
 This allows you to search for results containing specific words or phrases, or excluding specific words. You can limit your search to particular types of article, articles from specific issues of the journal, in particular languages or series, on particular topics or related to specific EIROforum organisations. 
 However, remember that, as for the simple search, you have to enter at least one keyword with at least three characters, and that wildcard searches are not possible (the search will only find entire words, not parts of a word). If you want to search, say, for all articles from Issue 3 in Turkish without limiting yourself to a keyword, then you need to use the  Browse articles  function.  
    Subscribing 
 Subscriptions are available both to the email alert and to the print journal. 
   Subscribing to the email alert 
 All Science in School articles are freely available to all visitors to the journal website. See the  archive . 
 To receive an alert when each issue is published, enter your email address in the 'Email alert' field in the right-hand column, select the 'Subscribe' radio button, and click on the 'Submit' button. If you want to unsubscribe from the alert, repeat this action, selecting the 'Unsubscribe' radio button instead. 
  
  
 For a list of all previously published email alerts, see  here . 
   Subscribing to the print journal 
 The print journal is only available within Europe, where it is free of charge. To  subscribe to the print journal, to leave comments on the website or to use the online discussion forum, you will need to   register  on the Science in School website. Registration is free. 
 To receive a free print subscription,   log in , then click on the 'Edit' tab, then on 'Print subscription'. Enter your address and don't forget to select the 'Subscribe to the print version' checkbox. 
        
      
        
       If you would like multiple copies of Science in School (for example, if you work for a museum or teacher-training institute and would like to give copies to visiting teachers), please contact us by  email , describing how you propose to distribute the journal. 
  

   DOIs 
 DOI stands for digital object identifier; essentially, a DOI is used to find any object in a digital environment (e.g. an online article). In Science in School, you will often find DOIs in our references, e.g. 
 
   Friday BB, Adjei AA (2005) K-ras as a target for cancer therapy. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta – Reviews on Cancer 1756(2): 127-144. doi:  10.1016/j.bbcan.2005.08.001  
 
 In the referenece, the DOI itself is linked (in this case, to  http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.bbcan.2005.08.001 ); clicking on the link will take you straight to the relevant article. For more information about DOIs, see:  www.doi.org  
   Nature articles 
 With kind permission from Nature Publishing, we offer free access to all Nature articles that are cited in our articles. Just click on the relevant link to download the PDF. For example, 
 
   Stratton MR, Campbell PJ, Futreal AP (2009) The cancer genome. Nature 458: 719-724. doi:  10.1038/nature07943  
   Download the article free of charge  here , or subscribe to Nature today:  www.nature.com/subscribe  
 
   RSS feeds 
		 What are RSS feeds? 
       The Science in School website offers many RSS feeds. RSS feeds allow you to see when websites have added new content. You can get the latest article headlines, links and descriptions in one place, as soon as they are published, without having to visit the websites you have taken the feed from. In essence, the feeds themselves are just web pages, designed to be read by computers rather than people. 
 Viewing and using Science in School RSS feeds 
       
         Download or sign up to a news reader service.  This is a piece of software that checks the feeds and lets you read any new articles that have been added. There is a range of different news readers available and new versions are appearing all the time. Different news readers work on different operating systems, so you will need to choose one that will work with your computer.  
 Some readers are accessed using a browser, while others are downloadable applications. The browser-based ones let you read your RSS feed subscriptions from any computer, whereas downloadable applications let you store them on your computer. You can find a list of RSS readers  here . 
   Decide what content you want it to receive; for example you may wish to be alerted whenever a new article in Spanish is published on the Science in School website, or a new physics article. Display the relevant list of content (for example, by clicking on the appropriate  keyword ,  category ,  topic  or  language ).  
   In the list, you will see the RSS icon (see below). Clicking on it will open the feed list (you can also select the feed list using the  list below ). At the top of the page, select the news reader service you have signed up to and subscribe. Alternatively, you can copy the URL of the feed list (e.g. http://www.scienceinschool.org/taxonomy/term/25/0/feed) into your news reader service directly. Your RSS feed reader should now  automatically alert you when  relevant content is added to the Science in School website. 
    
      
 Using Science in School RSS feeds on your website 
       If you run your own website, you can use RSS to display the latest content from the Science in School website on your own website. 
       We encourage this use of Science in School RSS feeds, but we  require that the content is  credited with 'Science in School' or 'www.scienceinschool.org', as appropriate. You may not use the Science in School or EIROforum logo or other Science in School branding. 
       We reserve the right to prevent the distribution of Science in School content and Science in School does not accept any liability for its feeds.  
         Science in School RSS feeds 
		 Article topics 
       
                 
             Arts   
             Education   
             Mathematics   
         
         
             Astronomy & space science   
             Engineering   
             Medicine   
         
         
             Biology   
             Ethics   
             Physics  
         
         
             Chemistry   
             History   
             Science   
         
         
             Earth science   
             Interdisciplinary   
               
         
       
  
		 Article series 
 
                 
             Biodiversity   
             Evolution   
         
         
               Climate change   
               Fusion   
         
         
             Energy   
            The  Japanese nuclear disaster   
         
         
            PENCIL project    
             
         
 
  
 Languages 
 
                 
             English   
            
             German   
             
             Romanian   
             
         
         
             Albanian   
            
             Greek   
            
             Russian   
            
         
         
             Bulgarian   
             
             Hungarian   
             
             Serbian  
             
         
         
             Catalan   
            
             Italian   
            
             Slovene   
            
         
         
             Croatian   
             
             Latvian   
             
             Spanish   
             
         
         
             Czech / Slovak   
             
             Lithuanian   
            
             Swedish   
            
         
         
             Danish   
             
             Macedonian   
             
             Turkish  
             
         
         
             Dutch   
            
             Maltese   
            
             Ukranian   
            
         
         
             Estonian   
             
             Polish   
             
               
            
         
         
             French   
            
             Portuguese   
            
               
            
         
 
  
 Article categories 
       
                 
             Back in the staffroom   
             Resources on the web   
             Science topics   
         
         
             Cutting-edge science   
             Review   
             Scientist profiles   
         
         
             Editorials   
             Science and society   
             Spotlight on education   
         
         
             Event reports   
             Science education projects   
             Teacher profiles   
         
         
             Feature articles   
             Science in film   
             Teaching activities   
         
       
   QR codes 
	   What are QR codes? 
       The QR (quick response) code is one of the most widespread types of two-dimensional bar-code. It can store a variety of information types, including URLs, which is how it is used on the Science in School website. For more information, see:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QR_code  
 Using Science in School QR codes 
 Starting with Issue 18, you will find a QR code at the back of the print issue (leading to the Science in School  homepage ), on the contents and last inside page (leading to the issue's online  contents page ), and at the end of each article (leading to the online version of that article). 
 With the aid of a smart phone, this QR code will lead you straight to the relevant website. All you need to do is download a free QR code reader app (such as BeeTagg or i-Nigma) for your smart phone and scan the code with your phone’s camera. To find a suitable one for your phone, see:  http://tinyurl.com/byk4wg  
  Hint: the apps works better in good light conditions, and with a steady hand. You may also want to try holding your camera at different distances from the code.
  You can then use all the live links to the references and resources, download the PDF, send the article to your friends, leave comments, and much more. What do you think about this new feature? Does it work for you? Leave your feedback here:  www.scienceinschool.org/QRfeedback      

   
     
         

             6242 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

            
                        
          
                       Return to top of page  
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note