ILL :: Neutrons for science : www 
 
 
 
 

 



  


       

  

 
 

 

 
 
 


	
	 
		
		
 

 

 

 

   

 Forgot Password  |   New Account 
 


	 
	
	

	 

 
 
	  CONTACTS  |  Visitors club  |  Library  |  Intranet 
 
 

 
 
	   
  
 Quick Links   Sitemap   Search   Publications   News   Links       
 
 
 
 




 
     

	   About ILL    What is the ILL?    FAQ about ILL    Press room    Future Planning    Publications    Films and animations    ILL Organisation chart    Getting to the ILL        News & Events    News    Press room    Forthcoming events    Past events    Talks and interviews    Seminars        Science & Technology    Why use neutrons?    Science at ILL    Neutron technology at ILL    PhD Programme    Scientific Publications    The ESFRI projects        Users    User News and Events    Important dates    Visitors Club    Applying for beamtime    User guide    Experimental Programme    Contacts    Long-Term Visitors    Time out        Instruments & Support    Instruments & groups    Sample Environment    Instrument Control    Labs & Facilities    The ILL Theory Group    Computing for Science    Useful tools    Infrastructure    The ILL scale model        Reactor, Environment & Safety    High-Flux Reactor    Safety    Environmental monitoring    Contacts        Industry    Solutions for R&D    Neutron Technology        Careers    Working at the ILL    Applications    Ph.D. recruitment    Work placements    Contact us     
	 
 




 

		 

		 
		 
		 
		 
		 

		 


		
		
		
		  Installez le plugin Flash - Install Flash plugin 
		  
		 

 







 

	 

			

		 

			
	
		   
		
			 
		
			 The Institut Laue-Langevin is an international research centre based in Grenoble, France.  
 At the leading edge of neutron science and technology, it operates one of the most intense neutron sources in the world.  [more]   
		
			 
		
			   
	
		
	
		   
		
			  The new ILL Management team  
		
			
		
			          
		
			 The new ILL Management team, as of 1st October 2011.  From right to left Andrew Harrison, Director General, Helmut Schober, Head of Science Division, and José Luis Martinez, Head of Projects and Techniques Division.  [more]  
                            
		
			    
		
			   
	
		
	
		   
		
			  The epn science campus  
		
			
		
			 
		
			   
                       
 The joint ILL/ESRF/EMBL/UVHCI site has an official name: the European  Photon and Neutron science campus - or "the EPN science campus", for  short.   
   www.epn-campus.eu  .   
      
		
			 
		
			   
	
		
	
		   
		
			  GIANT innovation campus  
		
			
		
			          
		
			 ILL is one of the founders of the Grenoble 'GIANT' innovation campus. See more information on  
  www.giant-grenoble.org       
                   
		
			    
		
			   
	
		
	
		   
		
			  All about ILL in your headphones  
		
			
		
			 
		
			 Please  visit the 'Omega Tau' website , for a 94 minutes podcast about ILL. 
       
		
			 
		
			   
	
		

		 





		 

			
	
		   
		
			  Fukushima : l'évaluation complémentaire de sûreté de l'ILL jugée satisfaisante  
		
			
		
			 
		
			 Suite à l'accident nucléaire de Fukushima, l’Autorité de Sureté Nucléaire française (ASN) a lancé une démarche d’évaluation complémentaire de la sûreté des toutes les Installations Nucléaires de Base (INB) françaises. Le 15 septembre les résultats de ces analyses ont été présentés par l'ILL à l'IRSN et l'ASN, pour instruction.  
 Le 16 novembre le Groupe Permanent d'Experts pour les Réacteurs Nucléaires a donné ses  conclusions  : les propositions de l'ILL sont jugées satisfaisantes. 
 Les travaux proposés vont donc être mis en oeuvre. Ils seront réalisés entre 2012 et 2014.  [En savoir plus]  
   
                                   
		
			 
		
			   
	
		
	
		   
		
			  La sécurité du réacteur de l'ILL  
		
			
		
			 
		
			 Les réacteurs nucléaires de Fukushima, gravement accidentés en mars,  sont utilisés à des fins de production d'énergie électrique. Le réacteur de l'ILL, lui, produit des neutrons utilisés pour la recherche. Ses objectifs, son contexte d'exploitation, ses caractéristiques techniques sont différentes. Toutefois l'accident de Fukushima soulève évidemment des questions, auxquelles nous avons répondu ici.   
  Questions-réponses sécurité    
                 
		
			 
		
			   
	
		
	
		   
		
			   L'ILL en quelques questions   
		
			   
	
		
	
		   
		
			 
		
			   
		
			 
		
			   
	
		
	
		   
		
			  Loi TSN et surveillance de l'environnement  
		
			
		
			 
		
			 Voir ici le  rapport TSN 2010 .  
             
		
			 
		
			   
	
		
	
		   
		
			  The ILL modernisation programme (2001-2014)  
		
			
		
			 
		
			 In order to keep the ILL at the forefront of neutron science and to provide the best possible experimental facilities and support to its European users over the next two decades, the ILL is modernising its infrastructure and instrument suite.  
 85 M€ are invested to boost instrument efficiency.  
 The scientific results of the first phase are already impressive: the average detection rate of neutrons for all instruments was improved by 19 times!   
 [More on the modernisation programme    here ] 
   
		
			 
		
			   
	
		

		 





		 

		     News   

			
	
		   
		
			 
     
      Follow us on facebook 
      
  
 Read us on twitter 
 
		
			   
	
		
	
		   
		
			  General information  
		
			
		
			
 
	 Breaking News: 
	
			   

				 Wednesday, 09 November 2011 10:25 
				  PhD proposals  
				  
				 The deadline for submitting a PhD proposal is 5 December 2011. 
Notification of selected projects...  [more]   
				     
                  [more]  
			   

		
			   

				 Friday, 07 October 2011 15:27 
				  New management team at Institut Laue-Langevin see European collaboration as key to scientific advance  
				  
				 The Institut Laue-Langevin in Grenoble has appointed a new senior management team as it prepares to...  [more]   
				     
                  [more]  
			   

		
			   

				 Monday, 26 September 2011 14:03 
				  ESS and ILL start joint R&D in neutron science  
				  
				 Today, 26th September, the European Spallation Source and the ILL initiate an extensive...  [more]   
				     
                  [more]  
			   

		
 go to Archive -> 
 

		
			   
	
		
	
		   
		
			  Scientific news  
		
			
		
			
 
	 Breaking News: 
	
			   

				 Monday, 31 October 2011 09:03 
				  New metal-hydride clusters provide insights into hydrogen storage  
				  
				 A study published in Nature Chemistry by researchers at the RIKEN Advanced Science Institute,...  [more]   
				     
                  [more]  
			   

		
			   

				 Wednesday, 12 October 2011 16:04 
				  Quasicrystals and the ILL  
				  
				 The Institut Laue-Langevin would like to add its congratulations to Daniel Shechtman on the award...  [more]   
				     
                  [more]  
			   

		
			   

				 Friday, 30 September 2011 21:07 
				  A new technique for understanding quantum effects in water  
				  
				 Use of oxygen isotope substitution will lead to more accurate  structural modelling of oxide...  [more]   
				     
                  [more]  
			   

		
 go to Archive -> 
 

		
			   
	
		
	
		   
		
			 
		
			  See all recent news   
		
			 
		
			   
	
		

		 

			

	 

 




 
     updated : 17.11.2011 
    
	  
	
		   
		
			 The ILL is a member of  EIROforum  , a collaboration between eight European scientific research organisations 
  © 2007-2010 Institut Laue-Langevin      Legal notice