School experiments at the nanoscale | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 17 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       A chemical bond: Nick Barker, linking schools and universities in the UK  
  Whynotchemeng.com website  
  Microwave experiments at school  
  Teaching on the move  
  Hydrocarbons: a fossil but not (yet) extinct  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 17  » School experiments at the nanoscale 			             School experiments at the nanoscale                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by celius on 07 December 2010 

 



  
   
    
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				Image courtesy of maggio07 / iStockphoto 
			 
				 
					Eleanor Hayes highlights some education resources about the nanoscale and nanotechnology. 
				 
					With the help of many education projects, introducing the nanoscale at school has never been easier – whatever the age of your students. Below are two experiments (for children aged 8+ and for 14- to 16-year-olds); many more resources are listed at the end of the article. 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	Dilution and the sense of smell 
 
	In the following experiment, suitable for ages 8 and above, food colouring is serially diluted, causing the colour and smell to fade gradually. The colour will fade more quickly that the smell, illustrating that even though our eyes cannot detect the chemical responsible for the colour, it is still present, as verified by the smell. 
 
	In the same way as we use our eyes to see large things and our nose to smell small things, nanoscientists use special tools to analyse (and manipulate) things at the very small scale: the nanoscale. Atomic force microscopes can feel and move individual atoms, while special surfaces with nanotextures on them can repel water extremely efficiently. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					The experiment is taken from the ‘Time for nano’ project, which offers informal education materials about the benefits and risks of nanoscale research, engineering and technology. The website and materials are available in nine languages (Dutch, English, Finnish, French, German, Italian, Polish, Portuguese and Turkish). The project members – science centres across Europe – also offer ‘nanodays’, with demonstrations, experiments, games, meetings and discussions about nanotechnology. For more information, see the Time for Nano website  w1  . 
			 
			 
				 
				Image courtesy of the Deutsches Museum 
		 
	 
 
 
	Introduction 
 
	When introducing the activity, the following examples may help to illustrate how small the nanoscale is. 
 
	 
		Our nails grow 1 nm each second. 
	 
	 
		The virus most usually responsible for the common cold has a diameter of 30 nm. 
	 
	 
		A cell membrane is around 9 nm across. 
	 
	 
		The DNA double helix is 2 nm across. 
	 
	 
		The diameter of one hydrogen atom is around 0.2 nm. 
 
 
	Encourage students to consider the things that they cannot see directly, for example the ozone layer, dyes in stained glass windows or the colloidal nature of milk. 
 
	Explain that the olfactory bulb of the brain is responsible for interpreting the smells that the nose detects. The olfactory bulb is strongly linked to a part of the brain that is responsible for remembering things, which is why certain smells can make us remember specific things clearly. 
 
	The students can calculate that in each tube, the food colouring is ten times more dilute than the previous tube. By the time they reach Tube 9, the original food colouring has been diluted to the level of one part of food colouring to a billion parts of water. 
 
	Materials 
 
	 
		Some scented (this is important) food colouring 
	 
	 
		A Pasteur pipette 
	 
	 
		Nine test tubes, numbered 1-9. 
 
 
	Image courtesy of the Deutsches Museum 
 
	Procedure 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				Image courtesy of the Deutsches Museum 
			 
				 
					 
						Carefully fill each test tube with 9 ml of water. 
					 
					 
						Using the Pasteur pipette, carefully add 1 ml of food colouring to Tube 1. Mix the tube thoroughly. 
					 
					 
						Smell the contents. What does it smell of? Does it smell the same as the original food colouring? 
					 
					 
						Now take 1 ml of liquid from Tube 1, add it to Tube 2 and mix thoroughly. 
					 
					 
						Continue the process by repeating steps 3 and 4: dilute Tube 2 into Tube 3, Tube 3 into Tube 4, and so on. 
				 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	At what point can you no longer see any colour in the tubes? 
 
	At what point can you no longer smell anything in the tubes? 
 
	How can you explain the difference? 
 
	The method you have just used is called a serial dilution. If you wanted, in just one step, to dilute 1 ml of the food dye to the same concentration as in Tube 9, how much water would you need? 
 
	Safety notes 
 
	 
		Do not eat the food colouring. 
	 
	 
		Some people might be intolerant of the food dye. If it comes into contact with skin, wash it off with lots of water. 
	 
	 
		Avoid getting the food colouring on clothes, as it will stain. 
 
 
	Building a liquid crystal thermometer 
 
	Liquid crystals have properties between those of a conventional liquid and those of a solid crystal; for example, a liquid crystal may flow like a liquid, but its molecules may be oriented in a particular direction, as in a crystal. Liquid crystals are sensitive to external factors, such as temperature, and change their molecular arrangement when these factors vary. In response to a change in temperature, some types of liquid crystal (thermotropic ones) change colour as a result of a change in assembly. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					In this experiment, students investigate colour changes in a thermotropic liquid crystal and then build their own liquid crystal thermometer. The protocol, which is suitable for students aged 14-18, was developed as part of the ‘Nanoyou’ project. Extensive supporting materials are available (in Danish, English, German, Italian, Portuguese and Slovak) from the project website  w2  . 
			 
			 
				 
				Image courtesy of setixela / iStockphoto 
		 
	 
 
 
	The Nanoyou website is available in 12 languages and offers a range of free materials, including posters, presentations, card games, role plays and a teachers’ training kit. This kit covers the fundamental concepts in nanoscience and nanotechnologies; applications of nanotechnologies; four laboratory experiments and a virtual experiment. Separate kits are available for the 11-13 and 14-18 age groups. 
 
	Schools that participate in the project work directly with leading European nanoscience research centres, receiving nanotech-related materials and taking part in workshops. Particular focus is given to ethical, safety and social implications, as well as present and future limits to scientific development. To learn how to get involved, visit the Nanoyou website  w2  . 
 
	Preparation 
 
	For this experiment, you will need four different mixtures prepared from three liquid crystals: 
 
	 
		Cholesteryl oleyl carbonate (CAS number 17110-51-9, Sigma-Aldrich 151157; 25 g costs about €60) 
	 
	 
		Cholesteryl pelargonate (CAS number 1182-66-7, Sigma-Aldrich C78801; 100 g costs about €115) 
	 
	 
		Cholesteryl benzoate (CAS number 604-32-0, Sigma-Aldrich C75802; 25g costs about €40) 
 
 
	The instructions for preparing each of these liquid crystal mixtures (‘Student synthesis procedure’) and supporting material for teachers are available to download from the Nanoyou website  w2  . 
 
	Materials 
 
	 
		4 pre-prepared liquid crystal mixtures 
	 
	 
		4 10-ml vials 
	 
	 
		A sheet of sticky-back plastic (used e.g. for covering books) 
	 
	 
		A spatula 
	 
	 
		Scissors 
	 
	 
		A permanent marker pen 
	 
	 
		A room thermometer 
	 
	 
		An A4 sheet of white paper 
	 
	 
		An A4 sheet of black paper 
	 
	 
		A water bath (or a hotplate, a Pyrex glass water container half filled with water, and thermometer) 
	 
	 
		A clothes peg 
	 
	 
		An A4 sheet of foam 
	 
	 
		An A4 sheet of black card 
	 
	 
		Gloves 
	 
	 
		Safety glasses 
	 
	 
		Paper tissue 
	 
	 
		Sticky tape (optional) 
	 
	 
		A hairdryer (optional) 
 
 
	Safety notes 
 
	Solids should not be inhaled. Wear gloves and safety glasses; contact with skin, eyes or clothing should be avoided. Wash your hands thoroughly after handling the liquid crystals. 
 
	Procedure 
 
	Preparing the liquid crystal sheets 
 
	 
		Using Table 1, prepare four different liquid crystal mixtures, each of which is sensitive to different ranges of temperatures. 
 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				Liquid crystal mixture 
			 
				Sensitivity temperature (°C) 
			 
				Cholesteryl oleyl carbonate 
			 
				Cholesteryl pelargonate 
			 
				Cholesteryl benzoate 
		 
		 
			 
				Mixture 1 
			 
				17–23 
			 
				0.65 
			 
				0.25 
			 
				0.10 
		 
		 
			 
				Mixture 2 
			 
				26.5–30.5 
			 
				0.45 
			 
				0.45 
			 
				0.10 
		 
		 
			 
				Mixture 3 
			 
				32–35 
			 
				0.40 
			 
				0.50 
			 
				0.10 
		 
		 
			 
				Mixture 4 
			 
				37–40 
			 
				0.30 
			 
				0.60 
			 
				0.10 
		 
	 
 
 
	Table 1: Preparing the liquid crystal mixtures 
 
	 
		Cut two pieces of sticky-back plastic (about 10 x 10 cm), peel off the backing paper and lay the plastic (sticky side up) on the bench. 
	 
	 
		Place 2-3 spatulas of the liquid crystal mixture 1 in the centre of one of the sheets. If the liquid crystal has solidified, warm the vial first with a hairdryer until the mixture has the consistency of honey. 
	 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				The finished liquid crystal sheet 
				Image courtesy of the 'Nanoyou' project 
			 
				 
					 
						Place the second piece of sticky-back plastic on top of the first piece, sticky side down. As you do this, gently press the middle to distribute the liquid crystal evenly, creating a thin layer of liquid crystal about 4 x 4 cm. Do not press too hard, otherwise the mixture will leak out; if it does, clean it up immediately with paper tissue. 
					 
					 
						Cut off any excess plastic and label the corner of the sheet with the number of the liquid crystal mixture (1). 
					 
					 
						Repeat the same procedure for liquid crystal mixtures 2-4. 
				 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	Use the room thermometer to determine the temperature in the room you are in. 
 
	Could any of your liquid crystal mixtures be used to determine the room temperature? If so, which one? 
 
	Investigating the temperature changes 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
						Place your four liquid crystal sheets on a sheet of white paper. Wait few seconds. What do you see? 
					 
					 
						Wearing gloves, press your finger against each of the liquid crystal sheets. (To make a fair comparison, you need to keep your finger on each liquid crystal sheet for the same length of time.) What do you see now? 
					 
					 
						Repeat the procedure on a sheet of black paper. 
					 
					 
						Record your observations in  Table 2 . (Tables 2-6 can be downloaded from the Science in School website  w3  .) 
				 
				 
					Why do you get different results when you test the liquid crystal sheets against white paper and black paper? 
				 
					Did all four liquid crystal sheets display some colour? If not, why not? What could you do to make these sheets display colour? 
				 
					 
						Rub your hands together and test each of the sheets again. Do you see any difference? 
				 
			 
			 
				 
				 
				The liquid crystal sheet before and after it has been touched 
				Images courtesy of the 'Nanoyou' project 
		 
	 
 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				  
			 
				White paper 
			 
				Black paper 
		 
		 
			 
				Sheet 1 (mixture 1) 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				Sheet 2 (mixture 2) 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				Sheet 3 (mixture 3) 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				Sheet 4 (mixture 4) 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
	 
 
 
	  Table 2: Testing for liquid crystal sheets 
 
	Testing the liquid crystal sheets 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				Immersing the liquid crystal sheet in the water bath 
				Image courtesy of the ‘Nanoyou’ project 
			 
				 
					 
						Fill the water bath with cold water and raise the temperature to 15 °C. 
					 
					 
						Keep a thermometer in the water to check the temperature. 
					 
					 
						Place a sheet of black paper behind the water bath, to make any colours visible. 
						Note: the paper should not touch the hotplate. 
					 
					 
						Holding it with a clothes peg, immerse liquid crystal sheet 1 in the water bath (left). Can you see any colour? 
					 
					 
						Raise the water temperature to 23 °C. In Table 3, record the colours that you see as the temperature increases. 
					 
				 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				Liquid crystal sheet number 1 
		 
		 
			 
				Temperature (°C) 
			 
				Colour 
			 
				Comments 
		 
		 
			 
				16 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				17 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				18 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				19 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				20 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				21 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				22 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				23 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
	 
 
 
	Table 3: Temperature-dependent colour changes of mixture 1 
 
	At what temperature do you start to see some colour in sheet 1? Does this correspond to the temperature predicted in Table 1? 
 
	Does the order of colours that you have recorded in the table above follow a particular pattern? If so, what pattern and why do you think this might be? 
 
	 
		Take the liquid crystal sheet out of the water bath. Does it lose its colour immediately? If not, why not? 
 
 
	Imagine putting sheet 1 in a water bath of unknown temperature. If the sheet turned orange what temperature would the water be? 
 
	 
		Place liquid crystal sheet 2 in the water bath (now at 23 °C) and raise the temperature to 30 °C. Record your observations in Table 4. 
 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				Liquid crystal sheet number 2 
		 
		 
			 
				Temperature (°C) 
			 
				Colour 
			 
				Comments 
		 
		 
			 
				22-23 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				23-24 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				25 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				26 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				27 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				28 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				29 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				30 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
	 
 
 
	Table 4: Temperature-dependent colour changes of mixture 2 
 
	 
		When the water temperature reaches 30 °C, test sheet 1 again. Can sheet 1 detect temperatures around 30 °C? Why/why not? 
	 
	 
		Place liquid crystal sheet 3 in the water bath (now at 30 °C) and raise the temperature to 35 °C. Record your observations in Table 5. 
 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				Liquid crystal sheet number 3 
		 
		 
			 
				Temperature (°C) 
			 
				Colour 
			 
				Comments 
		 
		 
			 
				30 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				31 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				32 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				33 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				34 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				35 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
	 
 
 
	Table 5: Temperature-dependent colour changes of mixture 3 
 
	 
		Place liquid crystal sheet 4 in the water bath (now at 35 °C) and raise the temperature to 40 °C. Record your observations in Table 6. 
 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				Liquid crystal sheet number 4 
		 
		 
			 
				Temperature (°C) 
			 
				Colour 
			 
				Comments 
		 
		 
			 
				35 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				36 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				37 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				38 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				39 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
		 
			 
				40 
			 
				  
			 
				  
		 
	 
 
 
	Table 6: Temperature-dependent colour changes of mixture 4 
 
	Was the colour sequence that you observed for sheets 2-4 the same as for sheet 1? Why/Why not? 
 
	When you take sheets 2, 3 and 4 out of the water bath, do they behave like sheet 1? If not, what is the difference? Why? 
 
	Which of the four liquid crystal mixtures would you use to see whether you have a raised temperature? Why? 
 
	Constructing the liquid crystal room thermometer 
 
	 
		On the sheet of white foam, use the permanent marker pen to write the word ‘NANO’. You will need to cover each letter with one of the four liquid crystal sheets, so make sure the single letters are large enough but not too large (see image below). 
	 
	 
		Cut the four letters out of the foam, leaving a single sheet of foam with holes spelling the word ‘nano’. 
 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
						Turn the sheet of foam over and cover each letter with one liquid crystal sheet, as follows: 
						N – sheet 1 
						A – sheet 2 
						N – sheet 3 
						O – sheet 4 
					 
					 
						Using sticky-back plastic or sticky tape, fasten the liquid crystal sheets to the foam, making sure that each letter only exposes one sheet. 
					 
					 
						Cover the liquid crystal sheets with the sheet of black card, fastening it to the white foam. Your room thermometer is now complete. 
				 
			 
			 
				 
				The finished thermometer 
				Image courtesy of the ‘Nanoyou’ project 
		 
	 
 
 
	Does your room thermometer show any colour? If not, why not? 
 
	If your thermometer does not show any colour, try placing it over a working laptop computer. It will demonstrate what we all know – that they heat up. 
 
	Your thermometer will last 3-6 months, after which it can be disposed of as normal waste. 
 
	How is this nano? 
 
	The properties of materials at the macroscale are affected by the structure of the material at the nanoscale. Changes in a material’s molecular structures are often too small to see directly with our eyes, but sometimes we can see changes in the material’s properties. Liquid crystals are an excellent example, in particular the type used in this experiment, since their optical properties (colour) change visibly as the temperature of the liquid crystal is changed. In nanotechnology, scientists take advantage of the peculiar properties of materials at the nanoscale to engineer new materials and devices. 
 
	Acknowledgements 
 
	Time for Nano is funded by the European Commission under the 7th Framework Programme. 
 
	The liquid crystal experiment published on the Nanoyou website was adapted from the ‘Preparation of cholesteryl ester liquid crystals’ – one of the many experiments listed on the website of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA  w4   – and from the ‘Exploring materials: liquid crystals’ activity developed by the Nanoscale Informal Science Education network  w5  . 
 
	The ‘Nanoyou’ (Nano for Youth) project is funded by the European Commission under the 7 th  Framework Programme (FP7/2007-2013) under grant agreement 233433. 
 
	Web references 
 
	  w1 – To learn more about the Time for Nano project, enter the video competition, download experimental protocols or find out about forthcoming events, see:  www.timefornano.eu  
 
	  w2 – Supporting materials for the liquid crystal experiment, including details of how to synthesise the liquid crystals, are available from the Nanoyou project website ( www.nanoyou.eu ) or via the direct link:  http://tinyurl.com/2ulmsta  
 
	  w3 – All the tables needed for recording the results of the experiment can be downloaded from the Science in School website:  www.scienceinschool.org/2010/issue17/nano#resources  
 
	  w4 – For the instructions for preparing cholesteryl ester liquid crystals, see the website of the University of Wisconsin-Madison’s Materials Research Science and Engineering Center ( http://mrsec.wisc.edu ) or use the direct link:  http://tinyurl.com/34kq8qn  
 
	  w5 – For the ‘Exploring materials: liquid crystals’ activity, see the website of the Nanoscale Informal Science Education network ( www.nisenet.org ) or use the direct link:  http://tinyurl.com/35el37p  
 
	Resources 
 
	For some nanotechnology experiments published in a previous issue of Science in School, see: 
 
	 
		Mallmann M (2008) Nanotechnology in school. Science in School 10: 70-75.  www.scienceinschool.org/2008/issue10/nanotechnology  
 
 
	The Nano and Me website includes a discussion of what we mean by ‘nano’ in food. See:  www.nanoandme.org/nano-products/food-and-drink  
 
	To learn more about our sense of smell, see the Nanooze website:  www.nanooze.org/english/articles/5senses_noseknows.html  
 
	For a video of serial dilution, see the website ‘Dr Shawn’s Science Fair Success Series’:  http://web.mac.com/drshawn1  
 
	The Nano mission website offers downloadable educational games that introduce basic concepts in nanoscience through real-world practical applications, from microelectronics to drug delivery. See:  www.nanomission.org  
 
	The Wellcome Trust’s free Big Picture series for teachers and students (aged 16 and above) explores issues around biology and medicine. It can be downloaded or ordered online. 
 
	 
		In June 2005, the Big Picture focused on nanotechnology. See:  www.wellcome.ac.uk  or use the direct URL:  http://tinyurl.com/344mpws  
 
 
	The Discover Nano website from the Northwestern University, Chicago, USA, offers an interactive timeline tracing the history of nanotechnology from medieval glass to the present. See:  www.discovernano.northwestern.edu  
 
	The Understanding Nanotechnology website offers an introduction to nanotechnology; explanations of nanotechnology applications, including medicine, fuel cells and food; and a discussion of nanomaterials. See:  www.understandingnano.com  
 
	For German speakers, Science on Stage Germany has produced a 120-page textbook describing the complexity and diversity of the nano-world, covering research, applications, history, education and job offers. Teaching tips, teaching materials and worksheets are also available. The book costs €2.50. For more information, see:  www.scienceonstage.de  or use the direct link:  http://tinyurl.com/3yqgasa  
 
	If you found this article useful, you may like to browse the other project-related articles on the Science in School website:  www.scienceinschool.org/projects  
 
 
	Dr Eleanor Hayes is the editor-in-chief of Science in School. She studied zoology at the University of Oxford, UK, and completed a PhD in insect ecology. Eleanor then spent some time working in university administration before moving to Germany and into science publishing, initially for a bioinformatics company and then for a learned society. In 2005, she moved to the European Molecular Biology Laboratory to launch Science in School. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				   
			 
				   
			 
				   
			 
				   
		 
	 
 
 
	  
   

   
     
              Science education projects    Science    Education    Chemistry    Issue 17    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 2835 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

   Comments   
 

   
  
      School experiments at the nanoscale  
    
        Tue, 2010-12-14 19:55 — Caroline Schooley
  
  
  
     
       This is a very helpful article; teachers need this sort of specific detail.   
 The Microscopy Society of America's Project MICRO, a middle-school outreach program, offers a booklist, "Nanotechnology for Kids".  It includes an outstanding teacher's manual, but most of the titles are intended to introduce nanotechnology to students.  It's a short list, and the quality varies; the reviews should be helpful.  Most are in English, but one is also available in Spanish.  MICRO would appreciate information on other titles. 
 Caroline Schooley 
Project MICRO Coordinator 
Microscopy Society of America 
 schooley@mcn.org  
Project MICRO:  http://www.microscopy.org/ProjectMICRO  
 Caroline Schooley 
Project MICRO Coordinator 
Microscopy Society of America 
45301 Caspar Point Road, Box 117 
Caspar, CA 95420 
Project MICRO:  http://www.microscopy.org/ProjectMICRO  
     

   

          Login  or  register  to post comments 
  
   
             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note