Answers to comprehension questions | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 1 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Recovering Pompeii  
  Shipwreck: science to the rescue!  
  Hydrocarbons: a fossil but not (yet) extinct  
  Monastic ink: linking chemistry and history  
  Plant hallucinogens as magical medicines  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 1  » Answers to comprehension questions 			             Answers to comprehension questions                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by sis on 04 August 2006 

 



  
   
           For the questions, see  Shipwreck: science to the rescue!              The hull timbers of both the Vasa and the Mary Rose have been found to contain about 2 tonnes of sulphur, as the element S. If 1000 kg sulphur in the wood were in the form of the pyrite, FeS 2 , how much sulphuric acid (H 2 SO 4 (aq)) would be produced when all the pyrite is fully oxidised? 
       
    Two pathways are common: to hydrated iron(II) sulphate: 
         FeS 2 (s) +  7 / 2 O 2  + (n+1)H 2 O ? FeSO 4 ·n(H 2 O)(s) + H 2 SO 4 (aq) 
    or to goethite, alpha-FeOOH (as in rust): 
         FeS 2 (s) +  15 / 4 O 2  +  5 / 2 H 2 O ? FeOOH(s) + 2H 2 SO 4 (aq) 
     
    Answer: 1000 kg S corresponds to 15.6 kmol FeS 2 . If hydrated iron(II) sulphate is the end product, 1.5 tonnes sulphuric acid would form. If goethite, alpha-FeOOH, forms, the amount would be double: 3.1 tonnes sulphuric acid. 
  
 
   Sodium hydrogen carbonate (sodium bicarbonate, NaHCO 3 ) has been added to the re-circulated sprayed conservation solution of the Mary Rose to keep its pH about 7. How much sodium hydrogen carbonate would be needed to neutralise the acid formed in Question 1 (from oxidised pyrite containing 1000 kg sulphur)? 
       
        Answer: To neutralise 1.5 tonnes sulphuric acid, 2.6 tonnes sodium bicarbonate would be required; 3.1 tonnes of sulphuric acid would require 5.2 tonnes of sodium bicarbonate. 
       
   
   Crystalline pyrite has a volume of 40 Å 3  per FeS 2  unit and expands dramatically when oxidised. For example, the volume per formula unit of the crystalline hydrated iron(II) sulphate melanterite, FeSO 4 ·7(H 2 O)(s), is 243.5 Å 3  and of rozenite, FeSO 4 ·4(H 2 O)(s), 162.7 Å 3 . Also natrojarosite, NaFe 3 (SO 4 ) 2 (OH) 6 , with a volume of 266.0 Å 3  per formula unit, is commonly found on the Vasa's wood. 
     
Estimate how many times the volume will increase when a pyrite crystal oxidises and a) FeSO 4 ·7(H 2 O)(s), b) FeSO 4 ·4(H 2 O)(s) or c) NaFe 3 (SO 4 ) 2 (OH) 6  salts crystallise as products. What effects could these processes have if they took place inside the wood structure? 
     
    Answer: When solid FeSO 4 ·7(H 2 O)(s) precipitates, the volume increases with a factor of 12.2 for FeSO 4 ·7(H 2 O)(s); 8.1 times for FeSO 4 ·4(H 2 O)(s); and 6.7 times for NaFe 3 (SO 4 ) 2 (OH) 6 . This can cause outbursts of salts through the wood surface, or crack the wood structure from within. 
     
   
   In a chemistry textbook, look up a schematic molecular orbital energy level diagram for the oxygen molecule O 2  in its ground state. Explain how uptake of energy from light can produce singlet oxygen,  1 O 2 , with all electrons paired. 
     
      Answer: The O 2  molecule is paramagnetic with the two outermost electrons unpaired, one in each of two degenerate (with same energy) anti-bonding molecular π-orbitals formed by combining the p-orbitals of the O atoms. With an energy uptake of ~92 kJ mol -1  from photons of light, the two outermost electrons can be paired (a 400-nm photon has energy of 300 kJ mol -1 ). The energy uptake process usually needs a sensitiser (e.g. light-absorbing dissolved organic matter). This excited singlet  1 O 2  (one single arrangement in space for a pair of electrons) oxygen molecule is a diamagnetic but reactive short-lived species, even though its energy is only sufficient for mild oxidation (Stumm W, Morgan J (1996) Aquatic Chemistry (3rd ed). New York, NY, USA: Wiley-Interscience).                      	       

   
     
              Cutting-edge science    Chemistry    History    Interdisciplinary    Issue 1    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 5667 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note