Involvement in Science in School | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   
 



 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
   Home   » Involvement in Science in School 
                     Involvement in Science in School           
          
                    
            

 



            Last updated Sun, 2011-06-26 13:07 — rau
      
   
           We welcome the involvement of everyone who is interested in European science education. Below are some ways in which you might like to get involved. Feel free to contact us with other ideas (see  here  for full contact details). 
         Science teachers 
       For Science in School to be a success, we need the involvement of enthusiastic science teachers - at both primary- and secondary-school level.  
       There are many ways in which you can join and help: you can submit your own articles on  teaching activities  you have developed, tell us about  science education projects  you are involved in, join our  panel of referees , write  reviews  of books or other resources, or   translate  articles from English into your  native language  for publication online, so that other teachers in your country can read and use them, too. See our guidelines for  authors , the  referee panel ,  book reviewers  or  translators .  
       If you're unsure if your idea for an article is suitable, email us and ask. And if you're worried about the standard of your English, don't be - if the idea is good, we're happy to help improve the English. Or why not team up with an English  teacher  from your school? 
       Do you know of a particularly inspiring colleague? Why not suggest him or her for a  teacher portrait  in Science in School? And if you're looking for collaboration partners, want to share your ideas or discuss with colleagues around the world, join our  online discussion forum . 
       Finally, do tell your friends and colleagues about Science in School. 
   Scientists 
       Do you enjoy communicating science not only to other research scientists, but also to the public? Would you like to try your hand at bringing teachers and students up to date on what's happening in science? We   welcome good overview articles on  cutting-edge developments  in science, or reviews of  current topics  in science. So if you'd like to have a go at explaining your own research work or know of a topic that would be interesting to discuss in  the classroom, we look forward to  your article submission. Guidelines for authors are available  here . 
       Alternatively, we would be glad of your help translating articles from English into your  native language  for online publication, to make them available to as many readers as possible. See  here  for details. 
       Do you know of a particularly inspiring colleague? Why not suggest him or her  for a  scientist portrait  in Science in School? We're particularly  looking for young scientists who do  something a little out of the ordinary and/or have left academia - to illustrate the variety of careers that science opens up. And if you want to share your ideas or discuss them with science teachers around the world, join our  online discussion forum . 
         Event organisers / science museums 
       If you organise events for science teachers and their students and would like to see them featured in our  events calendar , please send us brief details (date, location, title, abstract, price, language, website and contact details). We also invite you to link to Science in School from your website. 
       If you are willing to distribute  flyers  about Science in School to visiting science teachers, we would be grateful. Please  let us know  how many copies you would like. 
       If you are able to distribute printed copies of Science in School (for example at conferences or teacher training events), we would also be very interested to hear from you. 
         Science education project organisers 
        Are you involved in an  education project  that science teachers  can join,  that could serve as a model for others, or that has produced innovative teaching materials? We  welcome articles or information about such projects. See our  author guidelines . 
       Alternatively, you can search for project partners in our  online discussion forum .    

   
     
         

             18085 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

            
                        
          
                       Return to top of page  
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note