Guidelines for authors | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   
 



 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
   Home   » Guidelines for authors 
                     Guidelines for authors           
          
                    
            

 



            Last updated Sun, 2011-06-26 13:07 — sis
      
   
                 Science in School  is read by teachers of all science subjects, as well as others involved in science education. Articles therefore need to be accessible and interesting to an audience with a general science background. They should not target specialists in individual science subjects. 
             Aim for an engaging, journalistic style. Most of our readers are secondary-school science teachers, and they should be able to use many of our articles in lessons, perhaps giving them to their students. 
             Articles must be submitted in English,  accompanied by the completed  copyright form ,  and may not exceed the relevant word limit (see  Types of articles ). 
             If we publish your article, we may also include translated versions on our website.  
 Below are details of: 
             
               The  types of article  that we publish 
               Our  submission process  
                Format and structure  
                Images  
                Copyright  
                Translations  
                Submission deadlines   
             
               Types of article  
             Articles  submitted to Science in School should fit into one of the following categories. If you are not sure whether your planned article is suitable, please  ask us  before writing it.             
             
                 Scientific reports: either  cutting-edge science stories or  reviews of important science topics (maximum 1000 words). Remember that these articles are for an audience with a general science background rather than specialists working on your topic. Avoid unnecessary technical detail and remember to explain why the topic is important and interesting for a general audience. For example,  does it raise ethical issues or have implications for everyday life or future technology? 
                 
              These articles are normally written by research or industrial scientists. Here are the articles we have already published in the  cutting-edge science  and  science topics  categories. 
               
               Teaching activities: instructions for constructing and using innovative teaching materials or running novel experiments at school (maximum 1500 words). We are particularly interested in activities to introduce modern science into the classroom.  
                 
              If your activity involves a great deal of work (many teachers do not have the necessary time or freedom), include some ideas that can be done in less time. If applicable, make sure you include safety notes. 
               
              These articles are often written by  teachers.  Here  are the articles we have already published in this category. 
               
               Projects in science education: inspiring projects that can be   carried out at school or that schools can join (maximum 1500 words). There should be  practical value for our readers: how can teachers join your project or  establish something similar in their own countries? If possible,  include instructions for an activity from your project that can be done in the classroom;  make sure you include safety notes if applicable.  Here  are the articles we have already published in this category. 
                   
              Note that we receive many more articles in this category than we can possibly publish. Before you submit an article, therefore, please consider carefully whether it meets our criteria.  
               Book/resource reviews: if you are interested in reviewing English-language resources (e.g. books, websites and DVDs), please  let us know  and we will send you a list of resources to choose from. Guidelines for book reviewers are available  here .  Here  are the previously published reviews. 
               
               Back in the staffroom: brief, informative and entertaining articles  (maximum 500 words).  Here  are the articles we have already published in this category. 
                         
 In exceptional circumstances, we  publish articles in the following categories. 
             
               Science and society: the influence of science on society or vice versa (maximum 1000 words).  Here  are the articles we have already published in this category.  
                 Spotlight on education: Comparisons of education systems at a European level or fundamental changes to  science curricula (maximum 1500 words).  Here  are the articles we have already published in this category. 
       
               Note that while we also publish articles in further categories (see  here  for a full list), we normally source these articles ourselves. We  welcome suggestions for future articles in any category. For example, you might like us to cover a particular scientific topic (see  above ), interview a specific  young scientist , highlight a recent comparison of education systems (see  above ), or review a particular type of  online resource . 
   Submission process 
             Articles should be submitted via email ( editor@scienceinschool.org ); in the subject field of the email, please include the text 'Submission' followed by your full name. Make sure that you include your name, address and telephone number in the email. Do not forget to include your name in the article. 
             Submissions are initially  reviewed by the editorial team; if your article is promising but not quite suitable for Science in School, we may suggest how you should adapt it. In the next stage of selection, articles are refereed by teachers for usefulness, interest and applicability, after which we may request further changes to your article. If your article passes this stage, the editorial board  decides whether or not to publish it, and we will inform you once the decision has been made. 
             The Science in School editorial team retains the right to edit the final article to conform to the house style of the journal. 
 While we  make every effort to respond promptly to submissions, it may take some time before we can confirm whether we intend to publish your article. 
               Format and structure 
             Articles should be submitted as a Word (.doc), plain text (.txt) or rich text (.rtf) files. While you are welcome to use simple formatting such as headings, please avoid text boxes, embedded images and other such features. 
             If applicable, list  all references and web references (e.g. books,  articles or websites) mentioned in your article. If possible, these should be resources that are easily available to teachers, rather than articles in specialist journals. 
 You can add extra value to your article by listing further resources about the topic. These might be informative websites or materials than can be downloaded or ordered. These resources do not have to be cited in the text of the article. 
               Images 
             Images must be of print quality (minimum 300 dpi at a size of around 10 x 10 cm) and submitted as separate files (e.g. tif or jpg), not embedded in a Word document. In the text of the article, please include a list of captions which clearly correspond to the images. 
             If you are not  the copyright owner of all images submitted, please note that it is your responsibility to obtain permission from the copyright owner. Please include the name and affiliation of the copyright owner of all images in the corresponding captions. 
 Note that if your article is translated (see  below ), we may also need to translate the labels of any diagrams in the article. Please ensure you have the copyright owner's permission for us to do this. 
 If the images include children, please confirm that you have their parents' permission to use the photographs. 
   Copyright 
             Please complete our  copyright form  and submit it together with your article. We use Creative Commons copyright licences, under which the author retains the copyright and allows others to re-use the material. See  here  for more details. 
             If you have submitted the article simultaneously to another journal, or if you are submitting something that has already been published elsewhere, make sure you let us know. In general, we can accept such submissions, providing you own the copyright and that you have permission from the other publishers.  
             If you regularly submit articles to Science in School, you may prefer to agree for the Creative Commons copyright licences to be used for all your articles, rather than filling in the form each time. To do that, use the text 'Al larticles submitted to Science in School in the title field of the form. 
   Translations 
             To ensure that Science in School is read as widely as possible, many of the articles are translated into other European languages and put online. If you would be willing to translate your article (if published) into your mother tongue, please let us know. Otherwise, we will try to find volunteer translators to do this. Guidelines for translators are available  here . 
               Submission deadlines 
             The forthcoming submission deadlines are published on the Science in School  home page .
                

   
     
         

             21808 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

            
                        
          
                       Return to top of page  
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note