Hunting for asteroids | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 20 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       More than meets the eye: the electromagnetic spectrum  
  Google, guts and gravity  
  Mars, snakes, robots and DNA  
  Teachers fly high at the European Space Agency  
  EIROforum: introducing the publisher of Science in School  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 20  » Hunting for asteroids 			             Hunting for asteroids                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by brown on 23 August 2011 

 



  
   
    
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				Image courtesy of NASA / JPL-Caltech 
			 
				 
					Keen to save the world? Andy Newsam and Chris Leigh from the UK’s National Schools’ Observatory introduce an activity where you can potentially do just that: by detecting real asteroids – which may be heading for Earth. 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	Introduction 
 
	Asteroids or minor planets are dusty, rocky, metallic objects orbiting the Sun, too small to be considered planets. Tens of thousands of asteroids have been discovered so far, and more than 12 000 officially named. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					The largest, Ceres, is 1000 km in diameter, whereas the smallest are only the size of pebbles. Only 15 asteroids have been detected with diameters above 240 km, and if you stuck all known asteroids together, you would still have an object smaller than the Moon (diameter 3500 km). 
				 
					Most asteroids are found in the Asteroid Belt, between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, but others have orbits which take them very close to Earth: these are known as near-Earth objects (NEOs). If on a collision course with Earth, they are called meteoroids. When a meteoroid strikes the atmosphere at high velocity, friction causes it to incinerate in a streak of light known as a meteor. If the meteoroid does not burn up completely, what is left strikes Earth’s surface and is called a meteorite. 
			 
			 
				 
				Ceres, as imaged by the Hubble Space Telescope 
				Image courtesy of NASA, ESA and J Parker (Southwest Research Institute); image source: Wikimedia Commons 
		 
	 
 
 
	Although many small asteroids hit Earth every day, they are too small to cause any damage. However, there have been larger ones in the past: the 1.186 km wide Barringer Crater in Arizona, USA, was created about 50 000 years ago by a meteor thought to have been just 40 m wide. Such events occur about every 1000 years, but most craters are not visible due to weathering or vegetation, or because they are under the sea. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				The Barringer Meteorite Crater in Arizona, USA, is 1.186 km in diameter and 180 m deep. It is surrounded by a rim of smashed and jumbled boulders, some as big as houses; the shadow-casting structure on the north side of the crater is the visitors’ centre (23 January 2004) 
				Image courtesy of ESA 
			 
				 
					Although it is very unlikely that a large NEO will hit Earth in our lifetime, astronomers are trying very hard to find and track as many NEOs as possible  w1  . If they can find big Earth-threatening NEOs early enough, it may be possible to ‘push’ them out of the way and stop them crashing into Earth. 
				 
					How do we find them? Although the positions of stars remain fixed from night to night, the Moon, planets and asteroids wander slowly between them. Unlike most planets, asteroids are too dim to be seen with the naked eye. To observe them we need binoculars or a telescope. 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	In the following activity devised by the UK’s National Schools’ Observatory  w2   (NSO; see  box , students aged 7-19 can hunt for asteroids using images generated by the world’s largest fully robotic telescope, the Liverpool Telescope on La Palma, on the Canary Islands, Spain (8 m high, weighing 25 tonnes, with mirrors 2 m in diameter). Using the same techniques used by professional astronomers, students quickly learn how to detect real asteroids in real observations. Younger students may need an introduction from their teachers, for whom there are supporting materials online  w3  . Older students can go on to calculate the speed of the detected asteroids (see the  advanced task  below) and report back their data. The workshop combines information technology, physics and maths into a fun hour of discovery. 
 
	 
		  The National Schools’ Observatory 
	 
		The National Schools’ Observatory (NSO) is a major educational website, established by Liverpool John Moores University, UK. It allows schools to make their own observations alongside professional astronomers with the world’s largest fully robotic telescope – the Liverpool Telescope, which has 5% of its observing time allocated to schools in the UK and Ireland. Once the observing request has been completed, students are able to download the telescope data and use special image-processing software to analyse the resulting images. The website also provides educational resources on astronomy. 
 
 
	Asteroid Watch 
 
	Preparation 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					All materials required are freely available online  w3   without registration. Each student (or pair of students) will need a computer running Microsoft Windows ® . An Internet connection is not required for the activity if the files are downloaded in advance. 
				 
					 
						Download and install the dedicated LTImage software. This image-processing tool was developed by the NSO and adapted for simplified use in schools. LTImage can work with all image data that are in the FITS image format, i.e. with images from most professional telescopes around the world. A screencast movie guide on using the software is available online. 
					 
					 
						Download the teacher notes, the introductory PowerPoint ®  presentation, and a set of student notes (available for ages 7-11 and 11-16; older students will probably not need notes). 
				 
			 
			 
				 
				Artist’s impression of an asteroid slamming into tropical, shallow seas off the Mexican coast, forming what is known as the Chicxulub crater. This asteroid impact may have caused the extinction of the dinosaurs. Fortunately, asteroids large enough (1 km or more in diameter) to cause such serious damage are thought to strike only every few million years 
				Image courtesy of NASA / JPL-Caltech 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
	 
		Introduce the activity using the PowerPoint presentation. 
	 
	 
		Hand out a copy of the student notes to each student. 
 
 
	For details on how to use LTImage at the individual steps, see the teacher notes. 
 
	Making the observations 
 
	To detect the movement of asteroids, we need images of the night sky that were taken some time apart, so that they will have changed position between images. To make sure any motion we see is genuine, we will use four separate images, each taken about 30 minutes apart. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				The Liverpool Telescope's secondary mirror 
				Image courtesy of J Marchant 
			 
				 
					You will find the images in the ‘Data files’ section of the Hunting for Asteroids activity  w3   
				 
					The ah_demo-1.fits to ah_demo-4.fits files are simulated data for you to practice on, while the ahunt-10-1-1.fits to ahunt-10-1-4.fits data are real observations of an NEO called 2001 GQ2, which were taken just before midnight on 5 April 2009. 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
 
	 
		Save all eight images to your computer. For your first attempt, use the demonstration image set (ah-demo-1, ah-demo-2 etc.) as the images contain simulated asteroids for you to spot. 
 
 
	Detecting asteroids 
 
	 
		Start LTImage and load the first image. 
 
 
	You might be disappointed, since the image is probably very dark. Do not worry, this is normal and can be corrected: the camera on the Liverpool telescope was designed to count the number of photons it receives, rather than to take pretty pictures. Some of the details in the image may be so dark compared to the surrounding bright stars that we cannot initially see them. To reveal more detail from dimmer objects, we need to adjust the scaling using the two sliders in LTImage. 
 
	 
		Load and scale the other three images. 
	 
 
 
	 An image before and after scaling 
	Images courtesy of the National Schools’ Observatory 
 
	 
		To look for asteroids, we use a technique known as blinking. To blink the images, simply look at the main viewing screen in LTImage and switch between each of the four images in quick succession. For example, look at image 1 for about half a second, then at images 2, 3 and finally 4, before returning to image 1 and repeating the process. 
 
 
	The stars do not move, but an asteroid will. That is all there is to it – get several images, blink them, and if something moves (in a straight line), it is an asteroid. 
 
	   Can you see asteroid 2003 BK47 move? Click on image to enlarge 
	Images courtesy of the National Schools’ Observatory 
 
	In the demonstration image set, you should be able to pick out two asteroids (one is harder to spot than the other). Keep blinking the images until you are sure. You may want to try varying the time you look at each image. Note that the stars can appear to wobble due to wind and pointing variations, but asteroid movement is more obvious. 
 
	 
		When you are happy that you can find at least one of the moving objects in the demonstration image set, try the four images from the real image set to see if you can discover the asteroid. 
 
 
	Measuring the position of an NEO 
 
	 
		Once you have found an NEO by blinking the images, the next step is to measure its position. To find the pixel coordinate of it in each image, use the Image Examine tool in LTImage. See the ‘Measuring the position of near-Earth objects (NEOs)’ section on the Asteroid Watch activity website  w3   for detailed instructions. 
	 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
						To find the X and Y coordinates, move the mouse pointer until it is right under the cross hairs on the Examine window. 
					 
					 
						Repeat this for each NEO and image – remember to write down all your results. 
				 
				 
					The real thing 
				 
					Now that you have understood how it works, you are ready to download some more recent observations of real NEOs that astronomers need to know more about. The images are of positions where recently discovered NEOs are likely to be, and the observations are needed to refine our understanding of the NEO’s orbits. Because this is real research data, we do not know for certain where or even whether there will be an NEO in the image, but there should be. There is also a small chance of another, unknown asteroid in the same field of view, of course. 
			 
			 
				 
				Image courtesy of the National Schools’ Observatory 
		 
	 
 
 
 
	 
		Go to ‘Download some recent observations to analyse’ on the Asteroid Watch activity website  w3  , and download a set of four images. Remember to make a note of the group ID code – you will need it when reporting your results. 
	 
	 
		Scale and blink the images, and measure the positions of any NEO you detect. There will be at least one in most observations. In about 1 in 10 cases, there will be no NEO, and in about 1 in 100, there will be two. 
 
 
	Submitting your results 
 
	To submit your results (the X and Y coordinates of newly identified NEOs), go to 'Report your results' on the Asteroid Watch activity website. Useful (non-spam) results will be passed on to the International Astronomical Union’s Minor Planet Center  w4   to improve orbital estimates. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					  Advanced task: calculating the speed of an asteroid 
				 
					If you have time and feel confident about using a little maths with the students, you can use the demonstration image set and some of the LTImage tools to work out how far the asteroid has travelled and how fast it is going. For instructions, download the ‘More able tasks’ worksheet on the ‘Hunting for Asteroids’ activity website  w3  . 
			 
			 
				 
				The Liverpool Telescope 
				Image courtesy of J Marchant 
		 
	 
 
 
	Web references 
 
	  w1 – To learn how the European Space Agency is monitoring near-Earth objects, see:  www.esa.int/esaMI/NEO  
 
	  w2 – To find out more about the National Schools’ Observatory, see:  www.schoolsobservatory.org.uk  
 
	  w3 – The full Asteroid Watch workshop is described here:  www.schoolsobservatory.org.uk/asteroids  
 
	 
		For the introduction to the Hunting for Asteroids activity and to download the relevant materials, see:  www.schoolsobservatory.org.uk/activ/asteroids  
	 
		For information about the LTIimage software and to download it, see:  www.schoolsobservatory.org.uk/astro/tels/ltimage  
 
 
	  w4 – Useful asteroid data is passed on to the Minor Planet Center. See:  http://minorplanetcenter.net  
 
	Resources 
 
	In the film Deep Impact, astronomers try to destroy a comet before it crashes into Earth. For a toolkit for using the film Deep Impact in the classroom, see: 
 
	Oberhummer H, Behacker M (2006) Deep Impact. Science in School 1: 78-80.  www.scienceinschool.org/2006/issue1/deepimpact  
 
	In the ‘Galaxy zoo’ project, you help astronomers classify galaxies in images taken by the Hubble Space Telescope, while in ‘Moon zoo’, you help classify structures on the surface of the Moon. See:  www.galaxyzoo.org  and  www.moonzoo.org  
 
	If you enjoyed reading this article, why not browse the full collection of Science in School articles on astronomy? See:  www.scienceinschool.org/astronomy  
 
 
	Andy Newsam is the director of the National Schools’ Observatory and a reader in astronomy education at Liverpool John Moores University, UK. As well as carrying out astronomical research – studying objects as diverse as exploding stars, super-massive black holes and gravitational lenses – he is very active in using astronomy to promote a better appreciation and understanding of science. Because of this, he spends a lot of his time travelling to schools, sharing his enthusiasm with students and their teachers. 
 
	Chris Leigh has a master’s degree in astrophysics and a PhD on the detection and characterisation of close-orbiting extrasolar gas planets, both from the University of St Andrews, UK. Chris moved to Liverpool John Moores University in 2004 and is currently the project manager for the National Schools’ Observatory. He continues to be involved in research, and collaborates with exoplanet hunters around the world. 
 
	 
		Review 
	 
		After a short introduction to asteroids and the Liverpool Telescope, the article presents an activity on searching for asteroids in digital images. This can be used to link classical (distance, speed, gravity) to modern physics (astrophysics) and to earth science (the Solar System, landscapes on Earth hit by asteroids). Practical work in small groups benefits both the students and the teacher, and producing real scientific results that can be used by the scientific community is guaranteed to motivate the class. 
	 
		The article stimulates comprehension questions such as: 
	 
		 
			What are asteroids and where do they come from? 
		 
		 
			Have asteroids hit Earth? What effects can we see on Earth? 
		 
		 
			What are the properties of asteroids in the Solar System? 
		 
		 
			What is the Liverpool Telescope and how does it work? 
		 
		 
			How can you calculate the speed of and distance travelled by moving objects, such as asteroids? 
	 
	 
		Gerd Vogt, Higher Secondary School for Environment and Economics, Yspertal, Austria 
	 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
				 
					 
						Referee's recommendations: Physics, Earth science, IT, Astronomy 
						Ages 14-19 (Note that the authors use the activity with younger students.) 
				 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				   
			 
				   
			 
				   
		 
	 
 
 
	  
   

   
     
              Teaching activities    Astronomy    Physics    Space science    Issue 20    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 908 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note