The CoRoT satellite: the search for Earth-like planets | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 13 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Warrior against pseudoscience: Daniella Muallem  
  Plastics in cars: polymerisation and recycling  
  Is climate change all gloom and doom? Introducing stabilisation wedges  
  Translations - from today’s science to tomorrow’s medicine in Berlin-Buch  
  The Technology, Entertainment and Design (TED) website  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                               
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 13  » The CoRoT satellite: the search for Earth-like planets 			             The CoRoT satellite: the search for Earth-like planets                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by sis on 09 December 2009 

 



  
   
    
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				Image courtesy of ESA 
			 
				 
					Malcolm Fridlund from the European Space Agency (ESA) describes the search for extra-solar planets and explains how they can help us to understand the origin of life on Earth. 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	CoRoT 
 
	On 27 December 2006, the French space agency CNES (Centre National d’Etudes Spatiales), ESA  w1   and their partners  w2   launched the CoRoT satellite to search for small Earth-like planets outside our Solar System (extra-solar planets, or exoplanets) and detect ‘starquakes’. The satellite’s name is derived from Convection (Co), Rotation (Ro) and planetary Transits (T), and its scientific objectives are to study the rotation of stars and the convection – the upwelling of hot gas – from the stellar interior, and to detect planets that pass between Earth and the stellar surface (a planetary transit). 
 
	All three phenomena can be studied by measuring the changes in the light emission of the observed stars. The convection from the interior of a star causes the intensity of the light it emits to increase or decrease by a few parts per million. Areas of intense magnetic activity inhibit convection, forming areas of reduced surface temperature which are visible as darker starspots. As the star rotates, its light output changes by a very small amount, depending on the number of starspots on the hemisphere that has rotated into view – so monitoring the starspots tells us how fast the star is rotating. Finally, when a planet in orbit around a star passes between the CoRoT satellite and the star, it can be detected as a small dip occurring periodically in the star’s light output. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				     
			 
				This plot shows the transit of the first exoplanet discovered by CoRoT: CoRoT-Exo-1b. The transit results in a decrease in the luminosity of the Sun-like parent star when the planet passes in front of it every 1.51 days. It is a very hot Jupiter-like giant planet, similar to Jupiter also in mass (as determined by spectroscopic observations from the ground) and 1.49 +/- 0.08 times Jupiter’s radius. Click to enlarge image 
				Image courtesy of ESA 
		 
	 
 
 
	Planetary transits are used to detect exoplanets, while the convection and rotation measurements are used to characterise the star around which the discovered planets orbit. CoRoT will also be used for astroseismology: detecting acoustical waves generated deep inside a star that send ripples across its surface, known as ‘starquakes’. The exact nature of the ripples allows astronomers to calculate the star’s precise mass, age and chemical composition. In this article, however, we will concentrate on the search for exoplanets. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					Measuring these phenomena requires a space telescope with a very precise photometer (or light meter). Unlike the larger Hubble Space Telescope (launched in 1990), CoRoT – which measures only 30 cm in diameter – was designed specifically for this purpose. The only instrument on board is a camera that takes one picture every 32 seconds. The on-board computer then measures the light (changes) from each star, and, over time, produces a light curve. The spacecraft is directed at the same spot in the sky for up to 150 days at a time, simultaneously observing up to 12 000 stars. The longer it remains pointed towards the same stars, the more transits it can see. 
				 
					CoRoT can detect planets that are close to their star – taking up to 50-75 days to circle it (i.e. this is the length of their ‘year’) – and can find planets as small as our own Earth. The shape of the light curve (see diagram  above ) tells us how the planet is moving, how the outer layers of the star behave, and also the size of the planet. Once a planet has been detected by CoRoT, astronomers can observe the star and its planetary system with other types of instruments on very large telescopes on the ground, and learn more about it. 
			 
			 
				   
				CoRoT is pointed in the same direction for more than 150 days at a time, before the Earth’s movement around the Sun leads to the unwanted effect of the Sun’s rays entering the telescope. CoRoT then turns 180 degrees around its long axis and points in the other direction. Click to enlarge image 
				Image courtesy of ESA 
		 
	 
 
 
	Already, the CoRoT satellite has found several large planets. It is now also beginning to pick up what we think are small planets. This should enable us to find out how common our own type of planet is in the Universe. 
 
	Extraterrestrial life 
 
	Why is it important to know how common Earth-like (i.e. small and rocky) planets are? Firstly, because we would like to know whether our planet is unique. Furthermore, finding Earth-like planets outside our Solar System may help us to understand how life arose on Earth about 3.5 billion years ago. 
 
	Based on a hypothesis made more than 30 years ago, scientists assume that all types of ‘life’ work the same as that on Earth, and that alien life forms would have the same sort of metabolism as ours. Therefore, researchers base their search on what happened on Earth. Although the process by which life on Earth first emerged is still not known, it is believed to be linked to the presence of liquid water on a hard, rocky planetary surface. So if there are any other Earth-like planets, have any of them evolved life? 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				Artist’s impression of the CoRoT satellite in its orbit at 900 km altitude over Earth’s poles 
				Image courtesy of ESA / CNES 
			 
				 
					Finding an extra-solar planet as small as Earth is difficult. How much harder would it be to observe life forms at such distances? It would be particularly difficult if they were just bacteria, which were the only living organisms on Earth for the first few billion years and still outnumber other species by a million to one today in terms of individuals, and possibly also species number. 
				 
					The key is to find a planet with its atmosphere out of chemical equilibrium. A planet’s atmosphere (like almost everything else) tends towards a state of equilibrium (in which every chemical reaction proceeds at the same speed as its reverse process). Life, however, changes its environment: for instance, all the free oxygen (O 2 ) in our atmosphere has been produced by living organisms - plants and other organisms take up carbon dioxide and process it to oxygen, which is then released. Oxygen is so reactive that, if all life were to disappear from Earth, the free oxygen in our atmosphere would disappear in less than 4 million years (a short period given the billions of years of Earth’s history). 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	A similar chemical disequilibrium occurred when life originated on Earth and bacteria produced an overabundance of methane. What happened to the methane-producing bacteria and their world? We don’t actually know, but it is believed that new organisms evolved which produced oxygen instead: the oxygen was poisonous for the methane producers, and most of them died out. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					The gas composition and other conditions such as temperature and pressure tell you what the equilibrium should be (in the case of Earth, similar to the atmosphere of Mars). So if we could analyse the chemical equilibrium of an exoplanet’s atmosphere, we might determine if there is life as we know it, and maybe even to what stage evolution has progressed (methane or oxygen producers). 
				 
					The atmospheres of two very large and hot exoplanets have been studied with photometric measurements by the Hubble and Spitzer space telescopes as well as ground-based telescopes, and water and methane have been detected on one (see image to the right). This is another step towards proper comparative planetology, comparing the planets in our Solar System with those in other systems. With the aid of telescopes like CoRoT, designed specifically to find small rocky planets similar to Earth, we can expect – within the next few years – to find other stars that are circled by planets very similar to our own. 
			 
			 
				 
				Artist’s impression of the Jupiter-sized extra-solar planet HD 189733b, now known to have methane and water in its atmosphere (from studies with the Hubble and Spitzer Space Telescopes). Methane is the first organic molecule to be found on an extra-solar planet. The discoveries come from spectroscopic studies of light from the parent star that has passed through the planet’s atmosphere 
				Image courtesy of ESA 
		 
	 
 
 
	However, current technology is not sufficient to analyse the atmospheres of such smaller planets. The light we receive from an exoplanet is extremely feeble, and very large telescope apertures are needed: of all the photons radiated by an exoplanet, only a few photons per square metre arrive on Earth. Furthermore, our atmosphere contains so much oxygen and methane that there are already many ‘oxygen photons’ and ‘methane photons’ (photons with methane or oxygen signatures, respectively). The few ‘oxygen photons’ and ‘methane photons’ from an exoplanet would have to compete with all of these, making it impossible to detect them. Therefore we need to go into space – with large telescopes – which is both very difficult and very expensive. Scientists are developing the next generation of instruments to be technically able to carry out the necessary observations to tell us if these planets have also produced life and, if so, what happened to it. 
 
	Ultimately, we hope to apply this knowledge to understanding the evolution of life on our own planet. 
 
	 
		As we go to press 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
					Artist’s impression of Corot-7b 
					Image courtesy of ESO / L. Calcada 
				 
					 
						CoRoT first caught sight of a planet transiting the star CoRoT-7, to the left of Orion in the constellation of Monoceros (the Unicorn), about 500 light-years away, in Spring 2008. However, confirming the planet’s nature took months with large ground-based telescopes, so its discovery wasn’t officially announced until 3 February 2009. 
					 
						To measure the planet’s mass and density, astronomers then used the High Accuracy Radial velocity Planet Searcher (HARPS) spectrograph attached to the 3.6 m telescope at the European Southern Observatory’s  w4   La Silla Observatory in Chile, performing the longest set of observations (70 hours) on this machine so far. On 16 September 2009, the results were finally announced. 
				 
			 
		 
	 
	 
		The planet, known as CoRoT-7b, is about the mass of Earth, which puts it among the lightest known exoplanets. With a diameter less than twice that of Earth, it is also the smallest exoplanet measured so far. 
	 
		Every 20.4 hours, CoRoT-7b eclipses a small fraction (one part in 3000) of the light of its star for a little over one hour. Orbiting its star at a speed of more than 750 000 km/h, more than seven times faster than Earth’s motion around the Sun, it is the fastest-orbiting exoplanet known. 
	 
		And not only that: it is only 2.5 million km away from its host star, or 23 times closer than Mercury is to the Sun, which also makes it the closest known planet to its host star. It is so close that it must experience extreme conditions, which make it uninhabitable to life as we know it: the probable temperature on its ‘day face’ is above 2000 degrees Celsius, but minus 200 degrees Celsius on its ‘night face’. 
		The calculated density is close to that of Earth, suggesting that the planet’s composition is similarly rocky. Theoretical models suggest that the planet may have lava or boiling oceans on its surface. 
	 
		The astronomers found from their dataset that CoRoT-7 hosts another exoplanet slightly further away from the star than CoRoT-7b. Designated CoRoT-7c, it circles its host star in 3 days and 17 hours and has a mass about eight times that of Earth. Unlike CoRoT-7b, this sister planet does not pass between its star and Earth, so astronomers cannot measure its radius and thus its density. 
	 
		The finding brings astronomers ever closer to discovering inhabitable extra-solar planets, but such planets would need to be further from their star to support life as we know it. 
 
 
	Web references 
 
	  w1 – To learn more about the European Space Agency, see:  www.esa.int  
 
	  w2 – To find out more about the CoRoT satellite and the partners of the mission, see:  www.esa.int/science/corot  
 
	  w3 – For more information about ESTEC, see the ESA website  w1   or use the direct link:  http://tinyurl.com/39nw3r  
 
	  w4 – To learn more about the European Southern Observatory, see:  www.eso.org  
 
	Resources 
 
	Listen to the author’s podcast about the CoRoT project, which can be found on the ESA website  w1   or via this direct link:  http://tinyurl.com/ydoggpy  
 
	Find out more about the search for exoplanets in this article: 
	 Jørgensen UG (2006) Are there Earth-like planets around other stars? Science in School 2: 11-16.  www.scienceinschool.org/2006/issue2/exoplanet  
 
	To view all the Science in School articles about space science, see:  www.scienceinschool.org/space  
 
 
	Malcolm Fridlund is a Swedish astronomer who has worked at the European Space Research and Technology Centre  w3   (ESTEC) for more than 20 years. He has specialised, scientifically, in the area of exoplanets and the methods used to find and study them. He is currently ESA’s project scientist for the CoRoT mission. 
 
	 
		Review 
	 
		This article on the search for exoplanets can trigger scientific discussions on what life is, and why we are interested in studying the physical and chemical characteristics of celestial bodies. It can also be used as a basis for philosophical and social discussions about the relationship of humans with possible alien life forms. 
	 
		Marco Nicolini, Italy 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				   
			 
				   
			 
				   
		 
	 
 
 
	  
   

   
     
              Cutting-edge science    Astronomy    Chemistry    Physics    Space science    Issue 13    English    ESA    ESO       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 4670 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note