Teaching in the Ukraine: Halyna Yagenska | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 7 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Blind date in the science classroom  
  The physics of inspiration: teaching in Austria  
  A chemical bond: Nick Barker, linking schools and universities in the UK  
  Juggling careers: science and teaching in Germany  
  A star-struck teacher in Italy  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 7  » Teaching in the Ukraine: Halyna Yagenska 			             Teaching in the Ukraine: Halyna Yagenska                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by sis on 07 December 2007 

 



  
   
    	   
       
          
		Halyna and her students 
		Image courtesy of Halyna Yagenska 
		 
		 Halyna Yagenska tells Sai Pathmanathan about teaching in the Ukraine. 
		 Halyna Yagenska is no ordinary woman. Devoted mother of two and a teacher for 18 years, she works hard to improve science teaching in her home country, was named Best Ukrainian Biology Teacher in 2004 and was awarded the title ‘Honour Teacher of Ukraine’ by the president of the Ukraine. She tells Sai what she loves about teaching science, describes her efforts to link teachers with each other, and shares her hopes for science education in the Ukraine. 
		 
       
	   
	   “There are no teachers in my family,” says Halyna. “As a child I dreamed of working at school. But then I also played a lot of sports and wanted to win an Olympic gold medal or even become an astronaut. Above all, I always loved learning new things and was lucky to have a biology and geography teacher who influenced me and trained me to win the all-Ukrainian school competition in science.” Halyna also remembers the input of her parents, who taught her to appreciate the natural world; this was one of the main reasons that she chose to study biology and geography at university. But it was during her studies, on the first day of her school placement (a compulsory part of all university degrees in the Ukraine – not just for future teachers), that she knew she had found her dream career: to be a teacher.  
	   “I realised that teaching and especially interacting with kids suited me best. My first pupils were 11-12 years old and their natural curiosity inspired me. We used books on the history of science to write plays for school performances, presenting tales ranging from ancient Phoenicia to Columbus and Magellan.” 
	   Teachers are naturally proud of students who do well, and Halyna remembers two students particularly clearly. “Two girls, Maria and Olena, had never previously stood out in lessons,” she recalls. “But in one of the first hands-on activities I organised in their first year of biology, something grabbed their attention. The task was to observe a drop of pond water under the microscope. They found not only the usual algae, Spirogyra and Chlamydomonas, but also two examples of Protozoa: Stentor and Vorticella. This was a greater variety than any of the other students had in their samples. Additionally, Maria and Olena observed fertilisation in Chlamydomonas in their sample: their bench became a ‘site of pilgrimage’, which they loved.” 
	   This motivated Halyna too and she wanted to sustain their interest. The girls worked very hard for the next few months, also out of school hours, to breed plankton and identify the species they found. They even devised an experiment to test whether a washing powder advertised as the ‘least harmful washing powder to organisms in natural ponds’ really was. Maria and Olena prepared dilutions of four brands of detergents and added them to containers with two species of Crustacea. They collected results all through the night. It turned out that the least harmful detergent wasn’t the one advertised as such. Surprise, surprise. The girls presented a paper in Lutsk and in the capital, Kyiv, at the National Ecology Congress for School Students. Halyna continues to be proud of her students, both of whom are now studying biology at prestigious universities in the Ukraine. 
	    Of course, no teacher’s job is without its challenges. Halyna finds there is still a huge gap between educational reform and society’s attitude to education. “Parents still have an old-fashioned view about education. They make their children memorise and recall facts and knowledge, without really getting involved in their education. Also, students have different needs and interests: in the Ukraine, even the older school students cannot choose which subjects they learn, which can make it difficult to interest them in a subject they will not need for their chosen career. In the same class, I have students asking me ‘why do I need to study this?’ and others who want to study concepts in more depth. It’s a real challenge to keep the balance – to make sure one half doesn’t lose their interest in biology, and the other half is not deterred from a scientific career.” Halyna tries to involve her students – all of them – in the scientific world by making them researchers, not only of science but of the world around them. 
	    “The reason why parents don’t appreciate the need to develop their children’s scientific reasoning is probably because they only remember their own education. Ten years ago, the state education system in the Ukraine was very different. The task was to overload students with data, offer very little practical work and make them memorise scientific terminology.” The system is still rigid, but things are getting much better. “Nowadays every teacher can modify up to 30% of the content approved by the Ministry of Education and Science. In my opinion the optimal format is if the state authority sets up general guidelines with clear criteria of what is needed for exam success but then leaves it to the teacher to work out ways to achieve it.” 
	   Halyna is also optimistic about other changes being made by the Ministry of Education and Science. They are now more receptive to teachers’ and students’ needs and are testing new formats and approaches to encourage competence rather than knowledge accumulation in classroom science. These days, for example, new school books and programmes are written by teachers: the plans are submitted in a competition. Halyna is enthusiastic about this way of motivating students and many of her ideas have been accepted. 
	   A significant breakthrough in the last five years has been the all-Ukraine tournaments for school teams to debate the most advanced scientific theories and unsolved problems. They begin at a local level, with the winning teams going on to regional games and finally to the national level. The list of topics is distributed by the Ministry a few months in advance and teams of students (guided by their teacher) prepare for ‘battle’ using all the sources they can find. Every member in the team plays a different role – presenting, defending and opposing particular ideas – but no one knows which role they will be assigned until the day of the competition. Example topics include: 
	     
		 Imagine a situation in which gravity increases by 25%. How would mammals adapt? 
	     A gene associated with alcoholism (GABRA 2) is found in populations around the world, but the prevalence of alcoholism differs between nations. Explain this phenomenon. 
		 
 “I see how much enthusiasm it sparks among my pupils and I am very glad they can realise their potential,” says Halyna. “They work hard, reading complex material and extracting the essentials to build up their argument whilst all the time developing teamwork and presentation skills and even learning to control their emotions when debating.” These tournaments have also shown Halyna the value of being able to meet and swap ideas and experiences with teachers from other parts of the Ukraine. 
	   
         
            Halyna is still in contact with many of her former pupils. At the beginning of their university degrees, many of them come back to school to ask for books, advice or support but she has noticed that, after a while, the relationship changes: they bring new books and materials to update the school. Some even choose the school for their compulsory teaching placements. 
             Halyna encourages her former students to give talks to older teenagers in the school’s science club, even on such complex subjects as secondary signalling pathways in mammalian cells.  
            
              Halyna teaching 
          Image courtesy of Halyna Yagenska 
         
       
	   “Pupils love interesting facts and cutting-edge science and they are receptive to the ‘word of the scientist’. Real scientists can show them how scientific knowledge is acquired: how an original hypothesis evolves into solid knowledge. Scientists can also give us contemporary examples of wrong assumptions that were ruled out, helping our pupils to develop critical thinking.” Her former students also benefit from the visits: “They learn skills such as how to present material in an easily understandable manner and how to illustrate their points clearly using diagrams and tables.” 
	   But it’s not all about the students, past or present. Adequate support facilities for teachers are also needed. Two years ago Halyna took part in a three-day workshop for teachers, organised by the European Learning Laboratory for the Life Sciences (ELLS)  w1   based at the European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) in Heidelberg, Germany, and felt it was one of the best she had ever attended. “First of all it was the feeling of being exposed to true cutting-edge science. Not only did the very advanced facilities impress me, but the realisation dawned on me that the life sciences have become more and more influential in shaping our civilisation.” 
	   After the workshop, Halyna and her colleagues organised a series of workshops in the Ukraine with help from ELLS to pass on what they had learnt to other teachers and education professionals and to share materials and experiences. “Being a trainer is much more challenging than being a participant,” says Halyna. “We felt a greater responsibility as we had to teach our colleagues, some of whom hold senior positions. These people can influence the curriculum and it felt like a chain reaction: scientists talking to teachers, who talk to local union managers… all to help students. It was so different to my daily routine of teaching.” 
	   Halyna has also created the learning network for biology teachers in the western Ukraine using knowledge and skills she picked up in Heidelberg. More than 20 teachers in seven regions of western Ukraine form the backbone of this network, and share information with colleagues through seminars. In Halyna’s Volyn region, materials and practical experiments (e.g. DNA extractions) were presented to over 150 biology teachers. Halyna values the support of scientists in establishing this network; “In particular, one Ukrainian scientist then working at EMBL, Tetyana Klymenko, launched the process of knowledge sharing and the creation of the national network”, she explains. 
	   If Halyna was able to put European Union (EU) money to good use for the benefit of teachers and students, what would she do? “The most important part of any project would be the exchange of experience. If the best teachers, scientists and policy-makers from the EU could share their experiences with Ukrainian teachers and students it would be great, and would also improve teachers’ and students’ English skills.” 
	   Halyna feels that one of the biggest problems in the Ukraine is the lack of fluency in English. “In the Soviet Union, it was state policy to restrict our ability to communicate with people from other countries. The policy in the Ukraine is now very different but it will take a while for the language skills to catch up.” Halyna is keen to help: together with English teachers at her school, she runs biology lessons in English. “This integrated approach motivates students to learn both biology and English,” she explains. 
	   Like most teachers, Halyna is not afraid of hard work. Especially if it means getting involved in award-winning projects. She organised a school scientific club, which has now been running for more than ten years. Students choose the research they are interested in carrying out, and as a result they have won regional and national research competitions – with some of the data being published in scientific journals and scientific conferences as far away as Prague (Czech Republic), Milan (Italy), and Washington DC (USA). Studies investigated, for example, blood pressure in school children, autonomic regulation in adolescents, and the impact of pollution on river plankton. This is a particularly proud achievement for Halyna, as many members of the club went on to choose science as their career.  
	   Clever pupils? Probably. Inspiring teacher? Definitely. 
	   Web references 
	     w1 – The European Learning Laboratory for the Life Sciences (ELLS) is an education facility to bring secondary school teachers into a research laboratory. Based at the European Molecular Biology Laboratory in Heidelberg, Germany, ELLS welcomes European teachers to its free three-day practical workshops. See  www.embl.org/ells/  for further details. 
	   
   
        
        
        
   
    

   
     
              Teacher profiles    Education    Issue 7    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 5447 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

   Comments   
 

   
  
      Teaching Biology - Similar issues all over the world  
    
        Sun, 2008-01-20 20:51 — todd.carter
  
  
  
     
       Halyna, thank you for sharing your story.  It is interesting to note the similarities in approaches to teaching as well as the challenges we all face in the classroom and in our communities.  The ELLS workshops followed by development of networks by teacher-leaders like Halyna are proven strategies for improving teaching and supporting teachers through connection.  We currently have a project that pairs teachers and their students with scientists to develop genetics curricula and inquiry activities. Perhaps one day we can share experiences. 
 Todd Carter, President 
National Association of Biology Teachers 
USA 
     

   

          Login  or  register  to post comments 
  
   
             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note