When particles collide - Public Service 
  
  
 
 
	 
				 
			    
			 
				 
					 
						 SEARCH    
						 
						 
							 - All of Site - 
							 News 
							 Features 
							 Events 
						  
						
						 
					 
				 
				 
					 
						  Mobile  
						   iPhone App  
				       Feeds  
						  Newsletters  
						  Subscribe  
						  Stakeholders  
					 
				 
			 
		 
		 
			 
				 
					  HOME  
					  PUBLICATIONS  
					  NEWS & FEATURES  
					  EVENTS  
					  JOB SEARCH  
					  YOUR SAY  
					  PS TV  
				 
			 
			 
				  Accessibility help  
				 
					 
						  A - normal font size  
						  A - bigger font size  
						  A - biggest font size  
					 
				 
			 
		 
		  
         
			 
										 
							      
							 
								 GOVERNMENT ZONE 
								 
									  Central government  
									  Devolved government  
									  Education  
									  Health and social care  
									  Home affairs  
									  Local government  
									  Transport  
								 
								 AREA OF INTEREST 
								 
									  Built environment  
									  Culture, heritage and museums  
									  e-government  
									  Energy  
									  Enterprise and innovation  
									  Finance and pensions  
									  International  
									  Management and HR  
									  PFI and partnerships  
									  Procurement  
									  Science and technology  
									  Scotland  
									  Sustainable futures  
									  Waste  
								 
                                 SISTER SITES 
								 
									  Defence Management  
									  Public Service Europe  
								 
							 
							      
						 
			 
			 
				 
					      
					 
						 
							 
								 
									   Email  
									   Print  
								 
							 
							 
								 
                                        
                                        
                                        
                            
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
								 
							 
						 
						 
							 
								 
									 When particles collide 
									27 June 2011
                                    
									  
									
									 
										
									 
									Talking to Public Service Review's Michael Brennan, CERN Director General Professor Rolf-Dieter Heuer describes how the LHC is helping to bring science back to the masses...  CERN's Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the world's largest particle accelerator, has captured the attention of the public and media alike as the huge device attempts to recreate some of the most complex events in the universe, as CERN Director General Professor Rolf-Dieter Heuer tells Public Services Review's Michael Brennan.  What are the current research priorities in particle physics? We want to understand the microcosm and, at the same time, the development of the early universe. On the microcosm, the Standard Model of particle physics gives us a very comprehensive description of particle processes. It took decades to develop theoretically and test experimentally. The Standard Model is a fantastic success, but it has one cornerstone still missing: how do elementary particles get their mass?  The best model for that is the Higgs mechanism, named after Peter Higgs. If Higgs and the other scientists who put forward this mechanism in the 1960s are right, we need to find the particle associated with that mechanism – the so-called 'Higgs boson'. That's one thing, but there are many other topics being addressed by the LHC experiments.  For example, the Standard Model only describes about 5% of the matter and energy density of the universe: the part that we can see. We still have to explore the 95% of the universe that we can't see. One-quarter of it is dark matter, about 70% is dark energy and we hope to make a big jump in knowledge by finding some hints of dark matter in the near future.  A very interesting, and very intriguing, question is why there is essentially no antimatter in the universe, because at the beginning of time, matter and antimatter should have existed in equal quantities. Nature, however, seems to have introduced a small asymmetry between matter and antimatter, and this asymmetry is what has led to our matter-dominated universe today. We still need to understand what all the conditions were in order to achieve that and we want to understand the difference between matter and antimatter.  The LHC has had significant support and success. Do you think other large-scale projects are likely to enjoy similar support in terms of funding in the future? If it's scientifically justified then humankind should, and I believe will, support these kinds of projects. However, I think the way that will happen needs to evolve. Large-scale projects are usually undertaken on a global scale, not just by one region. The LHC had global participation, but the bulk of the resources came from Europe.  The next global project should be a real global project, which is shared by all regions involved in particle physics. If we have an excellent scientific case, I think it will be possible to find the funding for large-scale projects on that basis. And don't forget that CERN's annual budget is no larger than that of a large university.  What impact will funding cuts have on research and do you think it may have shifted governments' perspective to more applied research? I know this is something that is happening, but I think this is something we have to fight because it is the wrong approach. Basic and applied sciences belong together. Without basic science, at some stage we will run out of science to apply. If we only focused on applied science we would be making a big mistake.  It's the task of governments and public organisations to support basic science, particularly in times of economic downturn. The private sector tends to focus more on the applied end of the spectrum at such times.  How can organisations such as CERN challenge governments who do not support basic sciences? It's our job to point out the interplay of basic and applied science – the virtuous circle, as we call it. Basic science drives innovation. Innovation drives applied science, which in turn feeds back into basic science. This virtuous circle should not be interrupted, and I find a lot of resonance for this idea when I talk to people from the public and private sectors.  It's also our job to try to find other revenue streams, but I think a large international organisation like CERN cannot survive without a sustained funding model, and that can only come through collaboration from different funding agencies in different countries.  What role do you see the UK taking in international science programmes, particularly in light of recent spending cuts? Large-scale projects can only take place on an international level, and therefore our British friends and colleagues will have to argue clearly to justify their funding. As far as the UK's participation in CERN is concerned, things don't look as dark as they once did. It would be a huge mistake for the UK not to participate as fully as it does now in international research organisations like CERN.  Nowadays the majority of research in particle physics is undertaken on a global platform. There is a need for cooperation and collaboration beyond national, and even beyond regional, boundaries. The best way to educate scientists and engineers for the future is to participate in research – not only at home, but also in institutes that work internationally.  What can CERN teach the international science community about how to undertake large-scale research? The CERN model can teach us several things. Firstly, if we work together towards a common goal, we will almost always find a solution, regardless of the different starting points at the beginning. When you have a common goal, you find that everyone unites behind that goal, all pulling in the same direction.  Learning to work within a big project helps researchers learn to become visible, and to defend their work while respecting other groups within the project. Researchers learn to carry through a project on budget and on time, and to work cooperatively in large-scale projects.  Over the past couple of years, vast amounts of data has been generated because of the experiments at CERN. Do we currently have the adequate resources to process it? We do have the resources, but again we don't have the resources at a single place, but rather over the whole world.  What have the repercussions for the physical sciences been as result of the experiments at the LHC?  The LHC has been running, essentially, for one year. Our research is long term; we are planning on running the LHC for around 20 years. The first year has already had an impact in that within a few months of data-taking and analysis the experiments have shown that the Standard Model I was referring to earlier can be faithfully reproduced at the higher energies of the LHC.   This year, we are moving on to the discovery phase. However, in order to make discoveries, it might still take one or two years. By the end of 2012, I hope that we will have settled the Hamlet question for the Higgs: 'To be or not to be.' Finding the Higgs boson would be a huge discovery.  Other than the hunt for the Higgs boson, which other milestones do you see the project reaching? There are many analysis groups in each LHC experiment, each focusing on a different physics question, and we hope to see results from many of these as time goes on. However, there's a good reason why we have decided to run the LHC until around the end of 2012 before stopping for a lengthy period to prepare the machine for higher energy running. This decision was taken because if the Higgs boson exists, we'll find it in these two years.  In 2014, the LHC will be turned on to its full power. What difference will this make? Doubling the energy of LHC means we can produce particles with double the mass compared to today. We can extend, for example, the region in which we search for dark matter particles. The higher the energy, the higher the mass for production of possible new particles, and the deeper we get into the structure of the microcosm. Higher energy means smaller wavelengths, so our microscope is more powerful.  Higher energy brings greater discovery potential and if we run for long enough, we also increase our sensitivity to rare processes. The longer we run at higher energy, the more detailed the investigation can be.  Take, by way of analogy, a picket fence. If you throw a basketball at it many times, the basketball always comes back so you could conclude that the fence behaves like a wall. If you throw a needle at the fence many times, you'll soon figure out the shape of the fence from the way the needle bounces. If you keep on throwing, then you'll also find the knotholes in the fence. The more times you throw the needle, the more detailed the picture you'll be able to build up, and the same goes for our accelerator. We have to collide particles billions of times to find rare processes. In essence, moving to higher energy gives us a better resolving power, colliding more particles increases our sensitivity, and this is what we have to do for the next 15 to 20 years.  Do you think the amount of media and public attention on the LHC will encourage the next generation of children to engage in physics? Definitely. We're already seeing the first indications of this in the form of more applications for internships. Everybody is interested, and it's fascinating to see how the three letters 'LHC' now fill lecture halls. Young people want to come to CERN and want to study physics because of this. The LHC has caught the imagination of young people and is also helping to bring science back to its proper space in society. This is what we are missing. We are not talking enough about science, while all our lives depend on it.
								 
								 
									 
	                                        
										    
										    
                                
										    
										    
										    
                                            
										    
									 
								 
								 COMMENTS 
								 
									 
										 
											  COMMENT  
											   
											  
										 
										 
											  NAME  
											  
											  EMAIL  (NOT DISPLAYED) 
											  
											  TOWN / COUNTRY / ORGANISATION  
											  
										 
									 
									 
										   
										 YOUR COMMENT WILL BE APPROVED BY A MODERATOR HTML CODE IS NOT PERMITTED. 
									 
								 
								
								
								
								 
									 My opinion is that LHC should be closed as soon as possible. It is not reasonable to use the so big collective intellect for nothing. There are a number of very important areas in fundamental and applied science, which require people and funds (studies of the universe and the sun activity; earthquakes; low energy nuclear reactions; submicroscopic physics, which is behind such phenomena, as quantum mechanics and gravitation; etc.).  
					  				Dr. Volodymyr Krasnohlovets - Inst. of Physics, Kyiv, Ukraine 
								 
									
								
								
							 
							 
								
								 
									  RELATED FEATURES »  
									 
										
										  An open source Grid for science  
										
									 
								 
								
								 
									 FURTHER INFORMATION 
									   Feature feed  
									   Science and technology feed  
									   Register for weekly bulletins  
									 
										  Public Service Review: Science and Technology  
										  Public Servant  
									 
								 
								
								 
									  SUGGESTED NEWS »  
									 
										
										  LHC scientists prepare for re-start   
										
									 
								 
								
								 
									 RELATED LINKS 
									
									 
										  Cabinet Office  
										  UK Parliament  
										  DirectGov  
									 
									
								 
								
							 
						 
					 
					      
				 
			 
		 
				 
			 
			 
				 
					  ABOUT US  
					  CONTACTS  
					  SITE MAP  
					  TESTIMONIALS  
					  LINKS  
					  ADVERTISE  
					  CAREER VACANCIES  
					  TERMS & CONDITIONS  
					  COPYRIGHT  
				 
			 
			 
				 
					  PUBLIC SERVICE PUBLICATIONS  
					  GOVERNMENT NEWS  
					  PUBLIC SERVICE EVENTS  
					  PUBLIC SERVICE JOB SEARCH  
					  DATA SOLUTIONS  
					  YOUR SAY  
				 
			 
			 publicservice.co.uk Ltd, Ebenezer House, Ryecroft, Newcastle-under-Lyme,   Staffordshire ST5 2UB 
			Tel: +44 (0)1782 630200,   Fax: +44 (0)1782 740066,  www.publicservice.co.uk  
			Registered in England and Wales  Co.   Reg No. 4521155   Vat Reg No. 902 1814  62