Resources on the web | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   
 



 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
    	 
                
           Home   » Resources on the web         
        

      	
                        1 
  2  
  next ›  
  last »  
   
           Resources on the web           
          
                    
           
    
  
  
       
         
    

 


    ??π?????????? π???? ??? ?? ??????? ???? ???π???????????  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					?? ??????? ???? ????? ??????? ?? ???? 2010 ?? ??????? ???? ???π??????????? (???). ?? ?????? ????? ??? ?????????, ??. Ivo Grigorov, Lise Cronne ???  Giulia Realdon π??????? ??? ??????? ?π? ???????????? π???? ??? ????????? ??? ???????. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Resources on the web    Biology    Earth science    Education    Science    Biodiversity    Issue 17    Greek       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 600 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Risorse educative per l’Anno Internazionale della Biodiversità (International Year of Biodiversity)  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Le Nazioni Unite hanno dichiarato il 2010 Anno Internazionale della Biodiversità (IYB - International Year of Biodiversity). Ivo Grigorov, Lise Cronne e Giulia Realdon propongono per questa ricorrenza una scelta di risorse sul web per docenti e studenti. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Resources on the web    Biology    Earth science    Education    Science    Biodiversity    Issue 17    Italian       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 1028 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Educational resources for the International Year of Biodiversity  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					The United Nations has declared 2010 the International Year of Biodiversity (IYB). Ivo Grigorov, Lise Cronne and Giulia Realdon provide a collection of web resources for teachers and students on the occasion. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Resources on the web    Biology    Earth science    Education    Science    Biodiversity    Issue 17    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 2184 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Fumetti e cartoni scientifici  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Generalmente i fumetti sono stati considerati come niente di più che un passatempo economico. Mico Tatalovic, tuttavia, presenta alcuni fumetti che ritiene utili per favorire la promozione e la spiegazione della scienza agli studenti. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Resources on the web    Science    Education    Issue 14    Italian       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 2500 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Science comics and cartoons  

  
   
    	   
	     
          
          
		 
		 Comics have generally been considered as nothing more than a cheap pastime. However, Mico Tatalovic suggests some useful comics to help promote and explain science to students. 
		 
       
	      

   
     
              Resources on the web    Education    Science    Issue 14    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 11900 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Education resources for the International Year of Astronomy  

  
   
    		 This year is the International Year of Astronomy. To celebrate, Chris Starr and Richard Harwood suggest some useful websites and other resources to inspire your astronomy teaching.    

   
     
              Resources on the web    Physics    Astronomy    Space science    Issue 13    English    ESA    ESO       
         

              3 comments  
  Read more  
 3871 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Free online teaching materials  

  
   
    	   It can be difficult and time consuming to develop materials for really good science lessons. Many scientific research organisations, however, provide teaching resources, often designed together with teachers. Researchers provide scientific expertise and the teachers bring years of experience in the classroom.  	   These materials include pictures and videos as well as ideas for scientific experiments in the classroom. Some institutes even develop computer games for an interactive learning process. Sabrina Graß from the European Molecular Biology Laboratory reviews some online materials to help you to enliven your lessons and excite students about science.    

   
     
              Resources on the web    Education    Primary    Science    Issue 7    English    EIROforum    CERN    EFDA-JET    EMBL    ESA    ESO    ESRF    ILL       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 40452 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    ‘Ask a scientist’ websites  

  
   
    	   Halina Stanley from the American School in Grenoble, France, reviews some of her favourite ‘ask a scientist’ websites in English and French.  	   Thanks to the help of many readers throughout Europe, we can also draw your attention to sites in Croat, Danish, Finnish, Hungarian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Russian and Serbian.    

   
     
              Resources on the web    Science    Education    Issue 6    English    CERN    ESA       
         

              2 comments  
  Read more  
 11416 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Podcasts sobre Ciencia  

  
   
    	 Internet es una estupenda fuente de información, pero a veces esa cantidad increíble de contenidos puede resultar abrumadora ¿Por dónde empezamos, entonces, una búsqueda de noticias sobre temas científicos? En cada número de Science in School, vamos a sugerir diversas páginas web que pueden serte útiles.    

   
     
              Resources on the web    Science    Issue 3    Spanish    ESA       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 5983 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Science podcasts  

  
   
    	 Whether you are looking for a quick snippet about stem cells or dark matter to use in a lesson, or want to inform yourself regularly about developments in science, podcasts could be the answer. You can subscribe (free) to these radio programmes on the web, automatically download new episodes, and listen to them when and where you like: on the train, in the gym, in the garden….    

   
     
              Resources on the web    Science    Issue 3    English    ESA       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 7721 reads 
  
       

    
     
  
         1 
  2  
  next ›  
  last »  
    
  
  
  
  
            
                         Return to top of page  
         
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note