English, Features | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   
 



 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
    	 
                
           Home   » English, Features         
        

      	
                        1 
  2  
  next ›  
  last »  
   
           English, Features           
          
                    
           
    
  
  
       
         
    

 


    An archaeologist of the genome: Svante Pääbo  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Evolutionary geneticist Svante Pääbo tells Eleanor Hayes how he excavates the genome to understand human evolution. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Features    Biology    Interdisciplinary    Evolution    Issue 20    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 656 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Life in the line of fire  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					All major X-ray and neutron facilities employ instrument scientists, who are experimental experts, liaison officers and researchers rolled into one. Andrew Wildes from the Institut Laue-Langevin explains how he juggles his daily tasks. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Features    Physics    Issue 19    English    ILL       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 1387 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Battle of the birds: interview with Tim Birkhead  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Tim Birkhead tells Karin Ranero Celius about promiscuous birds and teaching science students. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Features    Biology    Issue 18    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 1277 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    The science of humour: Allan Reiss  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Men and women react differently to humour. Allan Reiss tells Eleanor Hayes why this is news. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Features    Science    Biology    Issue 17    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 2393 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Life savers in the sky: flying doctors  

  
   
     
	     
          
		 
		 Anne Weaver, lead clinician for London’s Air Ambulance, tells Marie Mangan about her job: saving lives. 
		 
       
	      

   
     
              Features    Science    Medicine    Education    Issue 16    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 2514 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Exploring out-of-body experiences: interview with Henrik Ehrsson  

  
   
     
	     
          
           
		 
		 We’ve all sometimes felt ‘beside ourselves’, but have you ever felt that you were actually outside yourself – looking at yourself from outside your own body? Marta Paterlini talked to Henrik Ehrsson, a scientist studying this phenomenon. 
		 
       
	      

   
     
              Features    Biology    Education    Science    Medicine    Issue 15    English       
         

              3 comments  
  Read more  
 3932 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Science is a collective human adventure: interview with Pierre Léna  

  
   
    	   
	     
          
           
		 
		 French astrophysicist Pierre Léna talks to Marlene Rau about science education as a symphony, the importance of curiosity, and his commitment to spreading inquiry-based science teaching in Europe and beyond. 
 
       
	      

   
     
              Features    Education    Science    Astronomy    Issue 14    English    ESO       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 3427 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Alan Leshner: at the interface of science and society  

  
   
    	 
       
          
		 
		 Dr Alan Leshner, Chief Executive Officer of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and Executive Publisher of the renowned Science magazine, tells Marlene Rau and Sonia Furtado about his varied career and shares his views on science education issues. 
	 
       
	      

   
     
              Features    Biology    Education    Science    Medicine    Issue 13    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 2828 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    New approaches to old systems: interview with Leroy Hood  

  
   
     
       
          
		 
		 Leroy Hood talks to Marlene Rau, Anna-Lynn Wegener and Sonia Furtado about his long-standing commitment to innovative science teaching, and how he came to be known as the father of systems biology.  
       
	      

   
     
              Features    Science    Education    Biology    Issue 12    English       
         

              2 comments  
  Read more  
 3413 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Time travel: science fact or science fiction?  

  
   
    	 
       
          
		 
		 Do you believe that time travel has no place in a serious science lesson? Jim Al-Khalili from the  University of Surrey , UK, disagrees. He shows how the topic of time travel introduces some of the ideas behind Einstein’s theories of relativity.  
       
	      

   
     
              Features    Space science    Physics    Astronomy    Issue 11    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 10253 reads 
  
       

    
     
  
         1 
  2  
  next ›  
  last »  
    
  
  
  
  
            
                         Return to top of page  
         
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note