Bring the fascination of the science centre into the classroom | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 8 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Catch them young: university meets primary school  
  Science Learning Centres: training for teachers  
  Travel wisely: the globe is warming!  
  Inspirational lessons in the science class  
  Explor@mobile: using new technologies to teach science to teenagers  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 8  » Bring the fascination of the science centre into the classroom 			             Bring the fascination of the science centre into the classroom                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by rau on 29 April 2008 

 



  
   
     
       
          
		Children acquire technical skills by building the exhibit ‘The Magic Soap Curtain’ 
		Image courtesy of NEMO 
		 
		 Amito Haarhuis from the Science Center NEMO in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, describes a project that challenges pupils aged 11-12 to design and create their own exhibits. 
		 During the Science Center at School project, pupils build their own exhibits, similar to those in a science centre – with the help of an employee at a real science centre. Using their exhibits, the pupils set up a science centre in their own school. They present the results of their research into the science behind their exhibits and invite fellow pupils and parents to try them out.  
       
	   
	   The project in a nutshell 
	   Science Center at School consists of eight mornings or afternoons, spread over at least five weeks. Only the first half-day takes place at a science centre. Here, a science centre employee introduces the project, telling the children what an exhibit is and what they have to think about when they build their own exhibit. 
	   The rest of the project takes place at school. The pupils work in pairs and choose (from a list provided by the science centre) which of more than 20 exhibits they want to build. They then make a technical drawing of their chosen exhibit, thinking about how they are going to make it and how big it should be. The children would like nothing better than to get down to building the exhibit right away; making a technical drawing slows down this process. It does, however, help the children to work in a more organised way and think before they act. 
	   From their technical drawing and a description provided by the science centre, they then build the exhibit. All descriptions and building instructions can be downloaded from the Science Center at School website  w1  . Building the exhibits involves sawing, drilling, cutting and pasting. For this part of the project, extra hands are needed in the classroom: two extra people (parents, trainee teachers or colleagues, for example) should be sufficient. 
	   
         
            After they have finished building, the pupils do some research using their exhibit. They study how it works and what scientific phenomenon it demonstrates. Using posters and oral presentations, the pupils then present their research to their classmates, teachers, family and friends, who have the chance to try out the exhibits too. 
             The main objectives of this project are to encourage an enquiring attitude to science and technology, and to demonstrate to the pupils how they can work together, give presentations (written and oral) and acquire a high level of technical skills.  
            
              Making a technical drawing helps students to work in a more organised way 
          Image courtesy of NEMO 
         
       
	   Successful pilot 
	   
         
            
              A science centre at school 
          Image courtesy of NEMO 
            The pilot project was carried out in ten primary schools, and pupils rated the project with an average score of 8.5 (on a scale of 0-10.0). The most highly valued part was the building of the exhibits (9.4). The reasons given by the children for the high score were: “because you don’t often get to do things such as sawing; I like that kind of thing” and “once it’s finished – you can see if it works”. Showing the exhibits to other children and parents was also rated highly (8.7): “because you’re happy with what you’ve made and you can show it to other people” and “because some people just couldn’t believe it and were thinking ‘how do they do that?’”.  
         
       
	   Girls became more technical 
	   What was striking was the fact that most of the girls considered themselves ‘not really technical’ before the project, whereas most of the boys considered themselves ‘pretty technical’. After the project, the children considered themselves on average more technical than before: 7% more children regarded themselves as ‘pretty technical’ or ‘very technical’. 
	   
         
            More significant is the increase among the girls: after the project, the number of girls who regarded themselves as ‘pretty technical’ rose by 66% and the number who considered themselves as ‘not really technical’ fell by 35%. It seems that the boys generally overestimated their own abilities before the project. By doing the project they got a more realistic self-image. Girls had a more realistic self-image to start with, but generally had less experience with technical activities. By taking part in the project they discovered that they were actually quite good at it, and that it was fun! 
  
              
              Question for the girls: Do you consider yourself technical? Click on image to enlarge 
		  Image courtesy of NEMO 
         
       
	   Educational trajectory 
	   The project is connected with an educational trajectory for enquiry-based learning and learning by design that NEMO has developed in co-operation with the AMSTEL Institute of the University of Amsterdam. 
	   We distinguished a ‘science trajectory’, to which enquiry-based learning is central (didactics of natural sciences), and a ‘technology trajectory’, to which learning by design is central (didactics of technology). An important aspect of both didactics is that it is the process and not the end product that is most important. 
	   Therefore, guidance by the teacher focuses primarily on acquiring an investigative attitude and technical skills. The Science Center NEMO provides a training session for teachers to prepare for the project. 
	   Enquiry-based learning 
	   It is important to realise that enquiry-based learning begins only once the exhibit has been built: the finished exhibit makes a physical phenomenon or technical principle tangible, so the exhibits lend themselves well to follow-up research. 
	    The children go through three research phases: first, ‘fooling around’ with the exhibit (unfocused investigation), which gives rise to lots of questions; second, ‘focused experimentation’, where specific research questions are included in the lesson descriptions and children can discover answers themselves; and third, ‘theoretical research’, where pupils research using books and the Internet to learn about the science behind how the exhibit works and how those scientific principles apply in daily life. 
	   Learning by design 
	   The lesson description explains how to design the exhibit, as well as the materials and tools required. However, no quantities for materials are given. Before the pupils can establish how much of each material they need, they must decide how big their exhibit will be. Once they have decided this, they sketch a 1:2 scale technical drawing, indicating how the components should be attached to each other. 
	   The children present their technical drawings to each other and their teacher, asking for feedback. They use this feedback to improve their technical drawing. 
      Most of the time, the exhibits do not work straight away. It is important that the teacher regards the technical problems that the children encounter as novel learning opportunities. Often the teacher will be tempted to think up solutions to help the children. But according to the didactics of learning by design, it is important that children come up with inventive solutions themselves. They can test whether these work immediately and tell the teacher the result. 
	   
	   Examples of exhibits  
	   
         
            
              Image courtesy of NEMO 
            This exhibit shows a zoetrope, a kind of forerunner of the modern film, developed at the end of the 19th century. From this exhibit, pupils learn something about the phenomenon of light (physics), the working of the eye and brain (biology), and technology (it is a technical product).  
         
       
	   
         
            This exhibit is a special mirror consisting of loose strips with slots in between them. By placing someone in front of the mirror and someone behind – and having them look at each other in the mirror – together they can make a new face which is a mixture. This exhibit is about light and reflection (physics), and is also a technical product.  
            
              Image courtesy of NEMO 
         
       
	   Instructions for these and many other exhibits can be downloaded from the Science Center at School website  w1  .	   
	   
	   
	   Science Center at Schoolis a project of the National Science and Technology Center, the umbrella organisation of Science Center NEMO, the largest science centre in the Netherlands. The National Science and Technology Center is working with the AMSTEL Institute of the University of Amsterdam, the Netherlands National Institute for Curriculum Development (SLO) and ten primary schools. 
	   The project was financed by the European Union under PENCIL (Permanent EuropeaN resource Center for Informal Learning) project. Under this banner, 14 European science centres and museums worked with schools and universities to try to find new ways of shaping science education. 
	   
	   
	   Help is at hand 
	   If you are interested in this project and would like more information, Science Center NEMO would be happy to help. Contact Amito Haarhuis ( haarhuis@e-NEMO.nl ). 
	   
	   Web references 
	     w1 – More information about the project is available on the Science Center at School website. To see all the English-language lesson materials for this project, click on ‘Primary Education – Teachers’ and then ‘Lesson materials’:  www.sciencecenteropschool.nl/index.php?id=95  
	   Amito Haarhuis is the Head of Education at the Science Center NEMO in Amsterdam, the Netherlands.  
	   
   
        
        
        
   
    

   
     
              Science education projects    Science    Primary    Education    Pencil    Issue 8    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 7010 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note