Sepiolites characterized for first time paving way to synthesis 
        —
        ESRF
     

    
      
         
      
    

     

     

    
    
      
        
            
                  
                
            
            
                  
                
            
        
    
    

    
	
          
        
            
                
                    
                    
                          
                    
                    
                
            
            
                
                     
                    
                    
                
            
            
                
                     
                    
                    
                
            
            
                
                    
                    
                          
                    
                    
                
            
        
    
        
        
    

    
    

    

     

     
     
     
     

    

    

     

    

    
     
    
    
      
      
    

    
      
      
    

    
      
      
    

    
      
      
    

   

   
     

       

         
           
             Skip to content.  |

             Skip to navigation 
           

           A Light for Science 
              



 
  
         
         
               
         
                      

        
        
        
         
         
         

        
         
           
               

 



   
        
        
          
        
        
     



 

             
	      
	      contacts 
             
              
              phonebook  
             
	      
	     

              
     
     
 

              
  
 

             

 

  Home  



  About Us 
 
  Company Info  
  Upgrade Programme  
  What is a Synchrotron?  
  Virtual Tour  
  Examples of Research  
  Documentation  
  Press Room  
  Ask an expert  
  EPN Science Campus  
  » How to get here  
  » Map of EPN Campus  
  » Visit an institute  
 
 
  News 
 
  General News  
  Spotlight on Science  
  In the Media  
 
 

  Events 
 
  Events  
  Conferences and Workshops  
  Seminars  
  Event Registration  
 
 

  Users & Science 
 
  Users guide   
  Research portfolio  
  Find a beamline  
  Publications  

  EPN Science Campus  
  » Library  
  » Guest House  
  » Restaurant & Cafeteria  
 
 

  Industry Solutions 
 
  How to book your experiment?  
  Acquire ESRF technologies  
  Laboratory services  
  Techniques and applications  
  Contact us  
 
 

  Operation 
   
  Storage ring status  
  Performance  
  Machine operation  
  Shutdown schedule  
  Safety  
 
 

  Technologies 
   
  Accelerators  
  X-ray optics  
  Sample environment   
  Detectors & electronics  
  Computing  
  Software development  
   
 

  Jobs  
 


           
	
          
	
       

        

      

       
         
           
            
             
               
                
                  

    
        

        
            
      
      
        navigation
     
      
         General News 
     
      
     
         

            

            
                

 

    

     
        
        
        
         View more news items 
        
    
     

    
    
 


 

    

     
        
         Sepiolites characterized for first time paving way to synthesis  
        
        
        
    
     

    
    
 


            
         
     
 


        

        

        
    
    
        

        
            
        

        

        
    

                
                 
               
             
            

            
             

              
	         

    You
are here:
     Home 
    
        ?
        
    
    
        
             News 
            
                ?
                
            
            
         
    
    
        
             General News 
            
                ?
                
            
            
         
    
    
        
            
            
            Sepiolites characterized for first time paving way to synthesis 
         
    

 
                 

                  

                   

                      

                    

    



                    

                     
    
         
    

    

     
    
         
             

                
             
         
    
    
         
             

                
             
         
    

     
    

    
      

    

    

 

         Sepiolites characterized for first time paving way to synthesis  

         

     
        

        

        
        last modified
        
        25-07-2011 16:39

        

        

        

        

         
    
 

     

 

         Sepiolite is a porous clay, used for example in cat litter, that absorbs more liquid than any other known mineral. A Franco-Spanish team of scientists has analyzed twenty different sepiolites extracted from mines around the world, using X-ray and electron diffraction.  

         
             
               
             
             Image of macroscopic sepiolite fibres from Norway. Credit ESRF 
         

        

         
            
  
 Sepiolite is a lightweight porous mineral
used in cat litter and other applications. The extraordinary properties of this
clay make it a highly sought after mineral, despite its scarcity in the Earth’s
crust: only a few mines worldwide extract it, several of them clustered near
Madrid in Spain, the world’s biggest exporter of this material. 
 
Sepiolite has been known since Roman times when it was used to filter and
purify wine, but our understanding at the atomic scale of how these tiny
crystals absorb enormous amounts of liquid has remained elusive until now. A
team of scientists from Spain
and France
has obtained for the first time single-crystal X-ray diffraction images of
sepiolite, opening the path to industrial synthesis and further improvement of
its properties. The results will be published in the October 2011 issue of the
journal American Mineralogist. 
 
The team included scientists from the Universities of Madrid and Salamanca in Spain,
of the Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL), the European Synchrotron Radiation
Facility (ESRF), and the Spanish CRG Beamline at the ESRF (SpLine), all in Grenoble (France).
 
 
No other mineral is known to absorb more water or other liquids as efficiently
as sepiolites. The reasons are its structural nanoporosity due to tunnels in
the crystals, and the fact that the elongated, needle-shaped sepiolite crystals
pack very loosely into a lightweight porous material. The surface area ranges
between 75 and 400 m2/g, meaning that 20g of mineral have an internal surface
equivalent to that of a football court. This is why sepiolite can absorb 2.5
times its weight in water. The tunnels in the crystal structure along with the
empty space between the needles form a capillary network through which liquids
can easily flow deep inside the bulk where the molecules attach to the surface
of the crystals. 
  
 Close-up of fibres - this
is a photo taken with an optical microscope of fibers from the macroscopic
sepiolite from Norway.
Credit ESRF. 
   
 
 
 
The tiny size of these crystals—they measure a few micrometres in length and as
little as some dozen atoms across—has been the main obstacle to their being
studied with single-crystal diffraction techniques. For this experiment, the
scientists collected samples of sepiolite fibres from twenty different deposits
around the world. These fibres, each made of many crystals, were first imaged
with electron-microscopy and then studied using X-ray powder diffraction. 
 
However, the most accurate technique to resolve the three-dimensional structure
of a crystal is single-crystal diffraction with either X-rays or electrons as
probe. “To study very small crystals, the ESRF uses an X-ray beam with just 2
by 5 micrometres cross section. In the end, we collected X-ray diffraction data
for two fibres”, says Manuel Sanchez del Rio from the ESRF, “but the data were
not easy to interpret, and needed extensive computer simulations to confirm and
refine the information gathered by electron diffraction experiments done in
parallel at the University Complutense of Madrid”.   
  
 Photo of a single fiber from macroscopic sepiolite from Norway attached to to sticky tape for the single-crystal X-ray diffraction experiment at ESRF beamline ID18F. Credit ESRF.  
 
 
The wide variety of sepiolites studied is now enabling the team to correlate
between the physical and chemical properties of a given type with its atomic
structure. “Today, no synthetic clay surpasses natural sepiolite. This is about
to change as our understanding of their atomic structure will guide the synthesis
of sepiolites from other, more abundant clay minerals and the design of
completely new materials for use in catalysis and batteries”, says Mercedes
Suárez from the University of Salamanca.  
 
“The future of sepiolites in the household is outside the litter box. Already
today, they absorb liquid spillages and odours and stabilise aqueous products
like paints, resins and inks. In synthetic form, they could bind food products
and stabilise drugs, extending their shelf life and making sepiolite an edible
product”, concludes Manuel Sanchez del Rio. 
 
Reference: Manuel Sanchez del Rio, Emilia
Garcia-Romero, Mercedes Suarez, Ivan da Silva, Luis Fuentes Montero, and Gema
Martinez-Criado. Variability in sepiolite: Diffraction studies. American
Mineralogist (in press). DOI: 10.2138/am.2011.3761.   
  
 Laue diffraction image produced by a few fibres of Norway
sepiolite. Credit ESRF. 

         

         
    
        
            
        
    
 
        
          

    
 

                    
                      
                 
    
        
    

                    

                   

                 

              
             
            

            
             
               
                
                  

    
        

        
             

 

     
            
           
            ESRF in the media
         
        

      
     
 

     
     
                
                Inauguration of ID24

                16-11-2011 
            
         
        
 

     
     
                
                BBC News on innovation, GIANT and the ESRF

                25-10-2011 
            
         
        
 

     
     
                
                The Guardian praises the ESRF

                14-09-2011 
            
         
        
 

     
     
                
                Nature speculates on a Nobel Prize

                06-09-2011 
            
         
        
 

     
     
                
                Deutschlandfunk interviews Helen Walker

                05-09-2011 
            
         
          

  
     
         more 
        
     
 


 
        

        

        
    
    
        

        
             

 
    

        
 
 
 
   
 
        

        

        
    
    
        

        
             

 
  
     
         
            Conferences
           
 
        
                         
                            
                     
                         
     

    
     
         
            
            Users' Meeting 2012 & Associated Workshops
            
                  06-02-2012
            
         
     
    


     
         
                more conferences…
         
         

     
 

 
        

        

        
    
    
        

        
             

 
  
     
        

         
            Seminars
          
                         
                            
                     
                         


     

    
     
         
            
             
                 Design and Development of X-Ray Fluorescence and Diffraction Instrumentation for Planetary Space Missions

 
            
               
                Today
             
         
     
    
    
     
         
            
             
                 X-ray Grating Interferometry for Phase Imaging ?Recent Activities in Japan? 

 
            
               
                15-12-2011
             
         
     
    



     
        

         
                more seminars…
         
     
 


 
        

        

        
    

                
                 
               
             
            
           
         
       
      

        


       

      

         
   
     
          copyright © 2011 ESRF   
        This Website has been tested with   Firefox 3, Internet Explorer 7 and Safari 3. Older versions might not   enable all functionalities.  
     
   


  
      


 

	 
           

      Site Map  
      Accessibility  
      Contacts  
      Disclaimer  
      Feedback  
      Credits  
      Phone Book  

 
	   European Synchrotron Radiation Facility