English, Teaching activities | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   
 



 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
    	 
                
           Home   » English, Teaching activities         
        

      	
                        1 
  2  
  3  
  4  
  5  
  6  
  next ›  
  last »  
   
           English, Teaching activities           
          
                    
           
    
  
  
       
         
    

 


    Plastics in cars: polymerisation and recycling  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					What types of plastic are used to build a car? How are they synthesised and recycled? Marlene Rau and Peter Nentwig introduce two activities from the ‘Chemie im Kontext’ project. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Teaching activities    Chemistry    Issue 20    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 798 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Fizzy fun: CO2 in primary school science  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Marlene Rau presents some fizzy and fun activities involving carbon dioxide, developed by Chemol and Science on the Shelves. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Teaching activities    Chemistry    Primary    Climate change    Issue 20    English    EFDA-JET    ESA       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 1520 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Hunting for asteroids  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Keen to save the world? Andy Newsam and Chris Leigh from the UK’s National Schools’ Observatory introduce an activity where you can potentially do just that: by detecting real asteroids – which may be heading for Earth. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Teaching activities    Astronomy    Physics    Space science    Issue 20    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 908 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    The DNA detective game  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					With the help of a detective game, Kenneth Wallace-Müller from the Gene Jury team introduces the use of DNA in forensics and the ethical questions involved. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Teaching activities    Biology    Issue 19    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 2466 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Amber: an introduction to organic chemistry  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Did you know that the electron and electricity are named after amber, the ‘gold’ of the Baltic Sea? Bernhard Sturm’s teaching unit based on this fossilised resin introduces not only conductivity but also many other characteristics of solid organic compounds. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Teaching activities    Chemistry    Physics    Issue 19    English    ESRF       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 1884 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    The resourceful physics teacher  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Physics teacher Keith Gibbs shares some of his many demonstrations and experiments for the physics classroom. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Teaching activities    Physics    Issue 18    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 2616 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Breeding dragons: investigating Mendelian inheritance  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Mendelian inheritance can be a tricky topic to teach, but Pat Tellinghuisen, Jennifer Sexton and Rachael Shevin’s memorable dragon-breeding game makes it easier to understand and remember. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Teaching activities    Biology    Issue 18    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 2863 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Going ballistic: modelling the trajectories of projectiles  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Students often find it difficult to calculate the trajectories of projectiles. With the help of Elias Kalogirou’s model, they can be easily visualised. In addition, Ian Francis suggests further uses for the model in the classroom. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Teaching activities    Physics    Education    Issue 17    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
  Read more  
 2662 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Bioinformatics with pen and paper: building a phylogenetic tree  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Bioinformatics is usually done with a powerful computer. With help from Cleopatra Kozlowski, however, you can investigate our primate ancestry – armed with nothing but a pen and paper. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Teaching activities    Biology    Education    Issue 17    English    EMBL       
         

              1 comment  
  Read more  
 4129 reads 
  
       

    
   
    

 


    Using cutting-edge science within the curriculum: balancing body weight  

  
   
     
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Friedlinde Krotscheck describes how she used a cutting-edge science article from Science in School as the main focus of a teaching unit on the human body. 
			 
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Teaching activities    Medicine    Mathematics    Interdisciplinary    Biology    Issue 16    English       
         

              2 comments  
  Read more  
 3768 reads 
  
       

    
     
  
         1 
  2  
  3  
  4  
  5  
  6  
  next ›  
  last »  
    
  
  
  
  
            
                         Return to top of page  
         
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note