Fizzy fun: CO2 in primary school science | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 20 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Science for the Next Generation: activities for primary school  
  Planting ideas: climate-change activities for primary school  
  Primary circuses of experiments  
  LeSa21: primary-school science activities  
  Take the weather with you  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                               
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 20  » Fizzy fun: CO2 in primary school science 			             Fizzy fun: CO2 in primary school science                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by brown on 23 August 2011 

 



  
   
    
 
	     
          
          Image courtesy of diego_cervo / iStockphoto 
		  Marlene Rau presents some fizzy and fun activities involving carbon dioxide, developed by Chemol and Science on the Shelves.  
       
	   
       Introduction 
       Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) is not only one of the most important greenhouse gases, it is found all around us: in the air (0.0388 vol%) we breathe; in the air we exhale (4 vol%); in fizzy drinks; in cakes, which rise thanks to the CO 2  produced by baking powder; and when organic compounds such as paraffin, paper, wood or petroleum are burned. In liquid form, it is used in fire extinguishers and as a refrigerant in the food industry (for example to store and transport ice cream).       
       
		 
		  In high concentrations, CO 2  can become dangerous for humans and other animals, but it is also the source of life: during photosynthesis, plants use CO 2  and light to produce sugar, starch, fats and proteins, as well as the oxygen we need to survive.  
		   The following teaching activities from Chemol  w1   and Science on the Shelves  w2   (see  box ) introduce primary-school children to this important gas. To support the activities, more background information on the chemistry, physiological importance, detection and occurrence of CO 2  is available in the resources section  w3  . 
 Note: the amounts of carbon dioxide produced in these activities are not high enough to be dangerous.  	
		  
		  One of the El Tatio geysers in the Chilean Andes 
Image courtesy of ecololo; image source: Flickr 
	   
 
       Fizzy balloons 
       When you add water to effervescent (fizzy) tablets or baking powder, bubbles are formed: a gas is produced. You can use this gas to inflate a balloon without blowing it up yourself. What kind of gas is it? Let us collect and analyse it. 
       Materials 
 
 Balloons 
   A funnel 
   Effervescent tablets (e.g. vitamin C tablets) or baking powder 
   A transparent 500 ml bottle 
   Water 
   Beakers 
   A tea light 
   Matches 
   A pair of tongs (or a wooden skewer) 
   Lime water: mix a spoonful of cement or mortar with about 250 ml water. Let the suspension settle, then filter it using two paper coffee filters. The filtrate is lime water. 
   A thick drinking straw 
   
  Image courtesy of Chemol
 Procedure 
 The first six steps are common to both activities – then you have two options as to how to proceed. 
 
		 
		  
		   Blow up a balloon and let the air out again to make the rubber more elastic.  
		     Use the funnel to fill the balloon with a packet of baking powder (20 g) or five crushed effervescent tablets.  
		     Pour 2-3 cm of water into the bottle.   
           	
		    
		  Image courtesy of craftvisioncraftvision / iStockphoto 
	   
 
 
 Cover the bottleneck with the balloon and tip the baking soda / effervescent tablets into the bottle. You may need to hold the balloon onto the bottleneck to prevent it from slipping off.  
 Shake the bottle lightly. The balloon fills with a gas that is produced in the effervescence.  
 When the balloon has stopped inflating, twist it shut so that no gas can escape and pull it off the bottle. 
 
 A) What kind of gas is it? 
 
		 
		  
		   Put some lime water into a beaker. 
		   
		   Place the drinking straw into the mouth of the balloon, then slowly and carefully release the gas from the balloon into the lime water. The lime water will become cloudy. 
		  			  
		    
		  Click on image to enlarge Image courtesy of Chemol 
	   
 
 Safety note: If you get lime water into your eyes, rinse them immediately with water. See also the  general safety note . 
 The lime-water test to detect CO 2  was developed by chemist Joseph Black (1728–1799). Both cement and mortar contain calcium hydroxide (Ca(OH) 2 ). When CO 2  is added to aqueous Ca(OH) 2 , very small particles of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3 ) are produced; this is what makes the lime water cloudy. 
 Where did our CO 2  come from? Both baking powder and effervescent tablets contain sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO 3 ) and a solid acid (such as citric acid crystals or monocalcium phosphate). In contact with water, sodium bicarbonate and the acid react with one another, ultimately forming water and CO 2 . This gas is what forms the bubbles when a fizzy tablet dissolves; it is also what makes cakes rise. 
 B) The gas is heavy 
 
 Hold the mouth of the balloon into a beaker and let the gas flow out. You cannot see anything, but we will see whether anything has happened. Put the beaker to one side.  
 Light a tea light and use a pair of tongs to place it in a second, empty, beaker (alternatively, you could stick the wooden skewer into the wax and use that to lift the tea light into the beaker). It should continue to burn.  
 Now place the tea light in the first beaker, which contains the gas from the balloon. What happens? 
 
 The candle should stop burning because the gas (CO 2 ) will choke the flame. 
 
 Repeat steps 1-7 to collect more CO 2  in a beaker. Now pour the invisible contents of this beaker into yet another empty beaker. Place a burning tea light into this beaker. What happens? 
 
 Again, the flame is extinguished, showing that we were able to pour the gas from one beaker to another, as though it were a liquid. This demonstrates that CO 2  is heavier than air. 
 
   The sources of these and other activities
 Chemol
 Chemol  w1   is a project based at the University of Oldenburg, Germany, to bring primary-school children into contact with chemistry. The team, which includes trainee teachers and is led by Dr Julia Michaelis, offers workshops for children on the topics of fire, earth, air and water, as well as training for primary-school teachers.
 Further Chemol activities about carbon dioxide include building your own CO 2 -based fire extinguisher, experimenting with carbonated drinks, measuring how much gas is produced by one effervescent tablet, and testing the effect of temperature on the solubility of CO 2  in water. Details can be found on the Chemol website  w1  .
 Science on the Shelves
 Science on the Shelves is a website  w2   providing instructions for a wide range of simple science experiments using food and other supermarket products, suitable for 6- to 11-year-olds and their teachers and families. The UK-based project, coordinated by Dr Nigel Lowe, is a collaboration between the University of York and the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council. If you have ideas for great experiments, Nigel is waiting to hear from you.
 
 Making your own sherbet or fizzy drink 
 
		 
		
		  Mix 3 spoonfuls of sodium bicarbonate with 1 spoonful of citric acid crystals (food grade). To improve the flavour, add either 2-4 spoonfuls of icing sugar or 1 spoonful of instant jelly powder and 1 spoonful of sugar. Your sherbet is ready to taste.  
		 The citric acid crystals dissolve on your tongue and react with the bicarbonate of soda. This produces bubbles of carbon dioxide gas, which cause the fizzing feeling on your tongue. To make a fizzy drink, mix the sherbet with water.  
          
		  Image courtesy of Chemol 			  
	   
 
 Fizzy explosives 
 Rockets and explosives work by generating huge volumes of gas in a short time. You can create your own rockets using citric acid and baking soda or effervescent tablets.
 Safety note: the following experiments produce high-speed projectiles. Follow all the safety guidance below and wear safety goggles. Perform all the experiments outside, as they make a mess. See also the  general safety note .
 The fizzy cannon 
 Materials 
 
   An empty tube (with lid) from effervescent tablets, or a small plastic photo film canister; this will be your cannon  
   An effervescent tablet, or baking soda and citric acid crystals  
   Water  
   A transparent plastic tube or glass in which the tube or canister can stand upright; this is your launch pad 
 
 Procedure 
 
   Pour about 2 cm of water into the tube or film canister, then add the effervescent tablet; alternatively, mix about ? teaspoon each of baking soda and citric acid crystals in the tube and add a few drops of water.  
   Quickly snap the lid on, place the cannon into the launch pad and stand well clear (at least 1-2 m away).  
 
 
		 
		  
        
		  Image courtesy of Chemol 
		  Safety note: Never allow anyone to look over the top once the cannon is ‘charged’. If it fails to go off (as it does sometimes if the lid is not airtight), open it very carefully, keeping your face turned well away. 
		 When the citric acid crystals and baking soda dissolve in water, they react with one another to produce carbon dioxide gas. Effervescent tablets already contain both ingredients (sodium bicarbonate and an acid), which will react with one another when water is added. The resulting gas expands, pressing on the walls and lid of the cannon. When the pressure becomes stronger than the weakest point of the surrounding wall (the lid), the cannon will explode dramatically, with the lid shooting up to 5 m into the air, releasing the gas.  			  
	   
 
  
 Replace the lid and repeat the experiment. 
 
 Time how long it takes for the lid to come off and then experiment with quantities: for example, try to get the lid to come off after exactly 1 min. 
 
 Carbon dioxide at the workplace – on Earth and in space 
 
		 
		
		  Carbon dioxide can be a hazard if it builds up in sufficiently high concentrations. To monitor this and hazardous gases in the workplace, EFDA-JET  w4   uses a variety of instruments, both handheld and installed in buildings, to detect gases that lower the oxygen concentration and can thus lead to asphyxiation. The monitored gases include not only carbon dioxide and other cryogenic gases such as helium, but also nitrogen (used for fire suppression), sulphur hexafluoride (SF 6 , an electrical insulation gas) and the vapour of liquid coolants such as Galden ® . Before working in areas where these gases are a hazard, staff must check the installed instrumentation or request a measurement with a handheld instrument to confirm that the atmosphere is safe. 
		   Carbon dioxide is also a potential hazard 350 km above Earth’s surface – for astronauts aboard the International Space Station (ISS), a collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA)  w5   and other international partners.  
             
         			  
	   
 
  When humans breathe, they consume oxygen and produce carbon dioxide. As a result, in closed habitats such as submarines, aeroplanes and the ISS, oxygen levels will fall and carbon dioxide will accumulate, endangering the crew (as described in the film Apollo 13). Levels of both gases there need to be regulated. 
 Currently, the ISS uses an open approach: trapping carbon dioxide in specific gas traps (e.g. lithium hydroxide, LiOH, which combines with CO 2  to form lithium carbonate and water), and transporting bottles of oxygen from Earth. In future, the ISS will use a closed, recycling approach: recovering O 2  from CO 2 , using either physico-chemical techniques (essentially ‘cutting’ the oxygen part from carbon part) or algae and other plants (photosynthesis). 
 EFDA-JET and ESA are members of EIROforum  w6  , the publisher of Science in School. 
 
 The CO 2  geyser 
   
		 
		
		  Geyser comes from the Old Norse word geysa, meaning gushing. First used for The Great Geysir, a hot spring in the Haukadalur valley, Iceland, which hurls boiling water up to 70 m into the air, the term is now used more generally for springs with intermittent, jet-like eruptions of water. As well as geysers powered by boiling water, there are also cold geysers, powered by CO 2 . Rising from the depths of Earth, the gas collects at the bottom of a subterranean water reservoir and builds up pressure. This is regularly released in form of a fountain of cold water. There may be one closer to your home than you think – for example in Herl’any, in Slovakia, or in Wallenborn and near Andernach, in Germany. 
		   If not, you can build one yourself. Place 200 ml water in a plastic bottle with a retractable nozzle (for example, one that contained washing-up liquid; see image  below ), add a heaped teaspoon of sodium bicarbonate and mix well.  
          
		  The cold-water geyser in Wallenborn, Germany 
Image courtesy of Sonja Pieper; image source: Flickr 			  
	   
 
 Add about 35 ml washing-up liquid and shake again. Using a funnel, rapidly add three heaped teaspoons of citric acid crystals. Very quickly, screw the closed nozzle onto the bottle, shake briefly and pull the nozzle up to open it. 
   
		 
			
		  
		  Plastic bottles with retractable nozzles 
Image courtesy of Eleanor Hayes 
 
		   A foam fountain up to 5 m high will shoot into the air. Alternatively, you can wait until the nozzle pops open by itself. Either way, after a short while, the pressure will be released and the fountain will stop. Close the bottle by pressing the nozzle down; about 30 seconds later, the pressure will again be high enough to start the geyser. You can repeat this several times.  
	   
 
     Web references       
         w1 – For more information on Chemol (in German), see:  www.chemol.uni-oldenburg.de  
         w2 – To find out more about Science on the Shelves, see:  www.york.ac.uk/res/sots  
         w3 – The following materials support the activities in this article: 
       
         Background information on CO 2  ( PDF  or  Word ®  format ) 
         True stories about carbon dioxide’s deadly effects ( PDF  or  Word ®  format ) 
       
         w4 – Situated in Culham, UK, JET is Europe’s fusion device. Scientific exploitation of JET is undertaken through the European Fusion Development Agreement (EFDA). To learn more, see:  www.jet.efda.org  
         w5 – ESA is Europe’s gateway to space, with its headquarters in Paris, France. For more information, see:  www.esa.int  
         w6 – To learn more about EIROforum, see:  www.eiroforum.org  
       Resources 
       For variations on fizzy rockets, see: 
        de Vries T (2002) Vitamintabletten einmal anders. Chemkon 9(3): 144-146. doi:  10.1002/1521-3730(200207)9:3<144::AID-CKON144>3.0.CO;2-K   
         The Portuguese Pollen project has developed a downloadable booklet of science teaching activities with food (The Fun-Flavoured Way to Learn Science), available in English and Portuguese. See:  www.cienciaviva.pt/projectos/pollen  
         Norwegian chemist Erik Fooladi offers a set of experiments comparing the chemistry of baking soda, horn salts and baking powder in Christmas cakes on his website of gastronomic science activities (in Norwegian). See  www.naturfag.no  or follow the direct link:  http://tinyurl.com/3spkkwm  
       For primary-school teaching activities with carbon dioxide and oxygen, on the topic of climate change, see: 
        Johnson S (2008) Planting ideas: climate-change activities for primary school. Science in School 10: 55-63.  www.scienceinschool.org/2008/issue10/psiclimate   
       In this issue, you will find a positive approach at climate change – what we can realistically do to stop it: 
        Shallcross D, Harrison T (2011) Is climate change all gloom and doom? Introducing stabilisation wedges. Science in School 20: 60-64.  www.scienceinschool.org/2011/issue20/wedges   
       If you enjoyed reading this article, why not browse the full collection of Science in School articles for primary-school teachers? See:  www.scienceinschool.org/primary  
       You may also be interested in our series on climate change. See:  www.scienceinschool.org/climatechange  
     
     Dr Marlene Rau was born in Germany and grew up in Spain. After obtaining a PhD in developmental biology at the European Molecular Biology Laboratory in Heidelberg, Germany, she studied journalism and went into science communication. Since 2008, she has been one of the editors of Science in School. 
     
		 Review		 
		 This article offers simple ways to unravel science mysteries. It helps everyone understand natural phenomena and facts, both everyday (breathing) and occasional (volcanic activity). It can inspire the class to develop further hands-on experiments. Both at a global level (climate change) and at a much smaller one (experiments), it allows students to realise that dangers exist and that it is necessary to take measures to avoid them. 
		 The article can be linked to current events or local natural phenomena such as Icelandic volcano eruptions or geothermal pools. It may also contribute to the awakening of a more ecological conscience. Interdisciplinary links can be made between environmental and ecological issues in chemistry and physics, biology (breathing), earth sciences, maths (measures and proportions) and literacy (instructions and rules). 
		 Younger children will love the fizzy balloons and geysers; I would reserve the more explosive activities for the older students. 
		 Maria João Lucena, Portugal         
		 
		 
		   
		      
		      Referee's recommendations: Chemistry,
		        Physics,
		        Biology,
		        Earth science,
		        Environmental studies / ecology,
		        Maths 
Ages 8-14   
	       
	     
       
 
           
                
                
                
                
           
    

   
     
              Teaching activities    Chemistry    Primary    Climate change    Issue 20    English    EFDA-JET    ESA       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 1520 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note