The exhibition ship MS Einstein: a floating source of scientific knowledge | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 2 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Stage lights: physics and drama  
  Radioactivity in the classroom  
  Mars, snakes, robots and DNA  
  A Private Universe online resources  
  Teachers fly high at the European Space Agency  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 2  » The exhibition ship MS Einstein: a floating source of scientific knowledge 			             The exhibition ship MS Einstein: a floating source of scientific knowledge                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by sis on 26 July 2006 

 



  
   
    	             		MS Einstein in Berlin by night             		 Imagine a barge carrying not coal or other heavy cargo, but something much more precious – inspiration! Beate Langholf from  Wissenschaft im Dialog , Germany, describes a science exhibition that travels the rivers of Germany with a different theme each year.  		     	   “The most important thing is to never stop questioning.” That was the advice given to a young student by Albert Einstein in 1955. It was therefore an appropriate motto to adopt for the exhibition aboard the MS Einstein – Wissenschaft im Dialog’s exhibition ship. Beginning on 9 May 2005, the ship travelled through Germany, stopping at 36 different cities along the way. It finally ended its tour in Basel, Switzerland, on 19 September.  	   The 105-metre barge had already been underway with its unusual cargo for a number of years. It was not, you see, carrying a load of containers or coal but rather a much more sensitive freight: a science exhibition designed for a wide audience, including children and young adults. The exhibition theme is chosen each year to coincide with the current science year proclaimed by the German Ministry of Education. In 2002, the University of Bremen created the Geoship. Subsequently, the MS Chemie (chemistry, 2003), the MS Technik (technology, 2004) and the MS Einstein (2005) were floated by Wissenschaft im Dialog  w1  . The goal of this initiative by German science organisations is to draw attention to current scientific research as well as to encourage a lively dialogue between the world of science and the general public.  	    		    		 Two weeks before the planned start of the exhibition, captain Albrecht Scheubner brought the MS Jenny (the ship’s name for much of the year) to the appointed harbour in Bremen. The exhibition, which had been planned over the preceding months, was then rapidly set up on board. Crewed by young scientists, the exhibition was free to visit.  		 “How fast does time pass?”, “Is there really nothing faster than the speed of light?”, “Why will I age faster on earth than I will in a rocket travelling through space?” Answers to these questions and many more were to be found on the MS Einstein.  		     		View into infinity 	          	  Nine themed zones in the bowels of the exhibition ship explained the Nobel prize-winner’s theories in such a way that even non-physicists could understand them. The zones covered the photoelectric effect, the general and special theories of relativity, mass-energy equivalence, stimulated emission as well as cosmology.              				   	          Trying to solve the nearly unsolvable puzzle        		   		  Along the side of the ship, a time-line reflected aspects of Einstein’s personal life. Finally, Einstein’s failed search for a unified theory of everything was demonstrated symbolically through the use of a giant three-dimensional and (almost!) unsolvable wooden puzzle.  		     				 These are only a few examples of the numerous interactive stations at the exhibition. The purpose of the hands-on exhibits was, of course, to handle and examine them. Curiosity drove a school group to press around the table in the ‘Einstein and me’ room. And that was exactly the point of this room – to awaken curiosity and stimulate the appetite of both children and adults for exploration and investigation. The students cooperated to try to find solutions to the tricky puzzles on display; for example, try to join nine points (arranged in rows of 3 x 3) with four straight lines. Everyone wanted to try their own luck and numerous attempts failed. With a helpful hint from one of the exhibition’s organisers, however, the students finally succeeded and the resulting euphoria accompanied them to the next table and the next challenge.  				 The exhibition on the MS Einstein was designed for students in grade 9 (age 15) and above. Younger children were nonetheless able to stay busy and have fun with the numerous playful components of the exhibition.  				  		    		 Many teachers had never seen their students so engaged. For the teachers, the visit to the exhibition ship complemented their natural-sciences lessons. The exhibition demonstrated the uses of scientific theories in everyday life, as well as showing research being done in colleges and research centres. The students were thereby able to take a close look at the practical and daily relevance of scientific work. Classroom knowledge and schoolwork could be seen in relation to a bigger picture.  		    		Relativistic cycling 		           		     	   Some students, of course, refuse to be enthused by anything. Nonetheless, there is almost never any trouble on the exhibition ship: the continuous refinement of the interactive concepts has gradually succeeded in ridding the exhibition of vandalism. The mixture of interactivity, suspense and concentration has been key.  	   Among those planning the exhibition ship were representatives from the participating science organisations such as the Fraunhofer Gesellschaft  w3  , Helmholtz Gemeinschaft  w4  , Leibniz Gesellschaft  w5   and the Max Planck Gesellschaft  w6  . Together with the exhibition agency, they ensured that the proposed exhibits were suitable for exhibiting and developed some hands-on exhibits specially. The overall goal of the exhibition was to make up-to-date research findings readily accessible to a broad audience.  	   The fact that the exhibition was on a barge meant that many people attended who would not normally visit a scientific exhibition. The unusual location and the fact that it was free also drew many chance visitors. People who only wanted to take a look often ended up spending many hours in the ‘floating science centre’ and showed up again the next day with friends or family in tow. The exhibition organisers heard almost nothing but positive feedback.  	   Young scientists in teams of four ‘pilots’ were responsible for answering visitors’ questions and supervising the exhibition. Many have been so thrilled by the work that they come back year after year. These students from the most diverse fields of study were able to gain a familiarity with communication and conveying scientific subject matter to others. And they were also willing to accept that, at the end of the day, they might be handed a vacuum cleaner or a screwdriver to ensure that everything was ship-shape, ready for the next day.  	   After about four months and 100 000 visitors, the exhibition was dismantled: the attendants and organisers went home, the exhibits were returned to their institutions, and the MS Jenny went back to carrying her normal freight. But the planning continues: the MS Wissenschaft – Sport and Computer Science will use sporting themes in 2006 to answer questions like “how does computer science function?”, “what can it do?” and “where can it be found at work?”  w2   So, once again, the slogan will be: science ahoy!  	    Help is at hand  	     If you are interested in setting up a similar exhibition in your own country and would like advice, the Wissenschaft im Dialog team would be happy to help. Contact Beate Langholf ( beate.langholf@w-i-d.de ).  	      		 Web references  	       w1 –  Wissenschaft im Dialog  is committed to ensuring a constant dialogue between scientists and as many people and social groups as possible  	        w2 – Details of the  MS Wissenschaft ’s trip in 2006, including a timetable (German)  	       w3 - The  Fraunhofer Gesellschaft  is the largest organisation for applied research in Europe   	       w4 - The  Helmholtz Gemeinschaft  is Germany’s largest research institution  	       w5 - The  Leibniz Gesellschaft  is a scientific organisation comprised of 84 non-university research institutes and service facilities  	       w6 - The institutes of the  Max Planck Gesellschaft  perform basic research in the interest of the general public in the natural sciences, life sciences, social sciences, and the humanities          Review  	     Welcome aboard a scientific cruise on German rivers!  	     An exhibition ship has been travelling through many cities on German rivers each summer with a scientific exhibition. The idea is that what is researched and discovered in laboratories and universities is of interest to all of us because science and research significantly influence the living conditions and culture of our society.  	     The boat (which was originally called MS Jenny but which changes its name each year according to the theme of the exhibition) is open to school classes and all visitors from May to September. This year’s name is MS Wissenschaft – Sport and Computer Science. Read this article and go on board!  	      Sølve Marie Tegnér Stenmark, Norway  	                              

   
     
              Science education projects    Education    Physics    Science    Issue 2    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 5798 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note