EIROforum - Welcome! 
 

 
 
 
	
	 
		  
		
		 
			 
				  About EIROforum   
				  Science Policy  
				  Activities  
				  Events  
				
				  Media  				
			 
		 
	 


	 	
		
		 
		
			 	
				 	
					  Members Login  		
            Print Version     	
				 		
			 
			
			 
				 
					  Jobs  
					    
					  Contact  
				 
			 
		
			  
		 

	   
       
				 Photo of the Month 
			 

		 
   
ESRF: Viewport on an experiment in a beamline. (Credit: Photoshop by S. Evans & G. Garner)
 
			
   

		 	
			 
				 News  
			 
	
		   
 24 November 2011 - ESO 
   Spanish Crown Prince visits ESO's Paranal Observatory  
On 24 November 2011 ESO’s Paranal Observatory in Chile was honoured by a visit from Their Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess of Asturias.  
 23 November 2011 - ESRF 
   Plate tectonics coming of age  
  A study of two billion year old rocks from African gold mines has  shown that the same process of subduction we observe today as a by-product of these large-scale continental movements of plate tectonics was already present on Earth more than two billion years ago. 
  More Press Releases  
 
		 
		

		
	
	 

	 
	
	 
   
			EIROforum is 'a partnership between eight of Europe’s largest inter-governmental scientific research organisations' that are responsible for infrastructures and laboratories:

    CERN, EFDA-JET, EMBL, ESA, ESO, ESRF,  European XFEL and ILL.

     
    It is the mission of EIROforum to combine the resources, facilities and expertise of its member organisations to support European science in reaching its full potential.

     
     More...  
 

 
   Outreach and Education 

   
       

   
 
   
   
     EUCYS 2011: EIROforum prize winners 
     Seven EIROforum prizes have been awarded to outstanding projects from a range of science disciplines at this year’s EU Contest for Young Scientists in Helsinki, Finland, on 27 September.  
      More...  
   
  
 





 

 
   Education 

   
      
      
   
   
     Healthy horrors: the benefits of parasites 
     Which the horrors dwell within us – should we be changing our view of them? 
      More...      
       
     Welcome to Science in
				  School, the European journal to promote inspiring science teaching by encouraging communication between teachers, scientists and everyone else involved in European science education. 
 More...   
         
   
 
 

 
     Scientific News 

     
          
 
     
     
      EMBL: gut reactions    
       One day, your doctor might ask you not just about your allergies and blood group, but also about your gut type. 
       More...      
     
   








  
  



 
     Science Policy 

     
        
        
     
     
       EIROforum takes part in EC Green Paper Consultation Process 
       EIROforum  participated in the EC Conference on the Common Strategic Framework for EU research and innovation  funding, held at the Charlemagne building in Brussels on 10 June 2011. 
         More...  
     
 

 
     Research Collaborations  

     
        
        
     
     
       Each of the EIROforum organisations carries out world-class research in its own field. In addition, the EIROforum organisations collaborate in research projects in interdisciplinary areas. 
         More...  
     
   
 


  



		 
			 
				  CERN  
				  EFDA-JET  
				  EMBL  
				  ESA  
				  ESO  		
				  ESRF  	
                   European XFEL  			

				  ILL  
			 
		 

		 © 2009-2010 EIROforum    
			 Webmaster 		 			
	 
	
	  