The ‘Radon school survey’: measuring radioactivity at home | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 14 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Warrior against pseudoscience: Daniella Muallem  
  Plastics in cars: polymerisation and recycling  
  Is climate change all gloom and doom? Introducing stabilisation wedges  
  Translations - from today’s science to tomorrow’s medicine in Berlin-Buch  
  The Technology, Entertainment and Design (TED) website  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 14  » The ‘Radon school survey’: measuring radioactivity at home 			             The ‘Radon school survey’: measuring radioactivity at home                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by sis on 29 April 2010 

 



  
   
    
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				Image courtesy of Nicola Graf 
			 
				 
					Marco Budinich and Massimo Vascotto introduce a school project to measure radon levels in your own home. 
				 
					The simple word ‘radioactive’ evokes something both mysterious and scary, and few realize that, most of the time, radioactivity is a natural phenomenon we have to live with. Radon is a naturally occurring radioactive gas and is the most frequent cause of lung cancer after smoking, representing the form of radioactivity with highest social impact. 
				 
					  
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	Radon leaks out of rocks and, because it is a gas, mixes with the air we breathe. The higher its concentration, the more radioactivity we are exposed to. Radon concentration is quite erratic: one house may be filled with radon while the neighbouring houses have no detectable radon levels. Since radon comes mainly from rocks, its concentration is correlated with soil composition, water occurrence and, more generally, geology. Knowing how much radon we breathe at home is thus important for our health  w1  . The ‘Radon school survey’ (RSS) project  w2  ,   w3   involves high-school students measuring radon concentration in their own homes. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				   
				Figure 1: Raw CR39 
				Image courtesy of the University of Trieste 
			 
				 
					Normally, measuring radon requires equipment well beyond the budget of a school; instead, we used a simple, safe and robust method to produce meaningful results by detecting a-radioactivity from radon. The nucleus of a radon-222 atom decays into polonium-218, emitting a ‘heavy’ ?-particle (a helium-4 nucleus). When the ?-particle strikes a solid object, it causes local damage, as a bullet would to a wall: it leaves a little hole or nuclear track. Our ‘wall’ was a tiny plastic target; after exposing it to radiation, we could simply count the number of holes left by the ?-particles, and from that information, calculate the average radon concentration during the exposure time. 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					The plastic we used, CR39, (also known as PADC – poly allyl diglycol carbonate), was developed for the construction of aeroplane cockpits in World War II and is now used in unbreakable optical lenses, and also in nuclear physics to detect ?-particles and neutrons. 
				 
					Materials 
				 
					 
						For each student, a CR39 radon dosimeter in a plastic screw-top box (see  Figure 3 ). (See the  list of suppliers  for more information) 
					 
						Sodium hydroxide (NaOH) 
					 
						Distilled water 
					 
						A water bath (or cheap thermostatic fryer) 
					 
						A microscope with micro camera (see ‘ Suppliers ’) 
				 
			 
			 
				   
				Figure 2: CR39 dosimeter 
				Image courtesy of the University of Trieste 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					Method 
				 
					 
						To quantitatively measure the level of radon, leave the dosimeter for one to six months in the same place. The bedroom is a good choice to reflect our exposure to radon, as it is a place where we spend a lot of time. After that, the detector is ready to be analysed. 
				 
				 
				 
					To make the nuclear tracks left by the ?-particles visible with a simple microscope, they must first be widened by chemical etching. 
			 
			 
				   
				Figure 3: CR39 inside the ‘exposure camera’ 
				Image courtesy of the University of Trieste 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
						Place the dosimeter in a beaker and cover it with a solution of 240 g sodium hydroxide per litre of distilled water. Heat at 80°C for at least 4 h. (If you are using a thermostatic fryer, test the water temperature first.) If you are preparing several dosimeters, use fresh sodium hydroxide solution for each one. 
				 
				 
				 
					Safety note: sodium hydroxide is corrosive, and must be handled with care. 
				 
					 
						Leave the dosimeter to etch for 4 h, then rinse it well. The tracks are now about 10 mm in diameter and can be viewed with a microscope. 
					 
					 
						Place the dosimeter under the microscope, take some pictures, and use them to count the nuclear tracks and to determine their average density ( Figure 5 ). 
				 
			 
			 
				   
				Figure 4: Microscope with micro camera 
				Image courtesy of the University of Trieste 
		 
	 
 
 
	Radon concentration is calculated using the formula: 
 
	 
		Rn is the radon concentration (Bq/m 3 ) 
	 
		D is the track density (number of tracks/m 2 ) 
	 
		fc is the calibration factor (the density of tracks corresponding to 1 Bq/m 3  per exposure day; this information is provided by the manufacturer) 
	 
		?t is the exposure time. 
 
 
	   Figure 5: Nuclear tracks 10x (holes marked with arrows) 
	Image courtesy of the University of Trieste 
 
	Sample results 
 
	The radon concentration found in our houses can vary by four orders of magnitude over the course of one day, and depends on many factors including weather, air circulation and pressure, and other seasonal changes. What is important for health purposes, however, is the average radon concentration. For that reason, radon measurements are typically taken over long periods. 
 
	Since the project began in 2003, some 2000 high-school students in Friuli Venezia-Giulia (north-east Italy) have taken part. Using calibrated CR39 dosimeters, we have performed four long-term surveys, some short-term measurements and a few verifications of sites with high radon levels. The project is still continuing, and schools that carry out measurements are welcome to submit their data to our project. 
 
	In the summer of 2005, 89% of the 897 radon measurements made by the students were under 200 Bq/m 3 , i.e. below the limit that the European Commission recommends for new buildings ( The Commission of the European Community, 1990 ). Only 2% (22 measurements) exceeded the limit of 400 Bq/m 3  recommended for pre-1990 buildings. Of those, 0.4% (4 measurements) exceeded 1000 Bq/m 3 , with the highest measurement being 5699 Bq/m 3  (see graph). 
 
	 Measurements taken in the summer of 2005. n=897, 7 schools. Mean average 130, standard deviation 292, maximum 5699, minimum 0, median 87 
 
	In the winter of 2007, the 860 measurements were generally somewhat higher: 70% below 200 Bq/m 3  and a further 20% between 200 and 400 Bq/m 3 . In this survey, 10% (88 measurements) exceeded the limit of 400 Bq/m 3 . However, the highest measurement made was lower than that of summer 2005: only 3227 Bq/m 3  (see graph). 
 
	 Measurements taken in the winter of 2007. n=860, 10 schools. Mean average 208, standard deviation 275, maximum 3227, minimum 0, median 140 
 
	 
		 
			 
				Radon measurement (Bq/m 3 ) 
			 
				Summer 2005 survey (n=897) 
			 
				Winter 2007 survey (n=860) 
		 
		 
			 
				Rn≤200 (limit for post-1990 buildings) 
			 
				89% (795) 
			 
				70% (604) 
		 
		 
			 
				200<Rn≤400 (limit for pre-1990 buildings) 
			 
				9% (80) 
			 
				20% (168) 
		 
		 
			 
				Rn>400 
			 
				2% (22) 
			 
				10% (88) 
		 
	 
 
 
	Table 1: Sample results from the RSS project 
 
	In those cases where levels of radon above the limit were detected, the measurement was repeated, and if the levels were still too high, we recommended that the students contact the regional environmental protection agency, which could advise on how to keep radon out of the house. An example of a simple radon reduction method is to ventilate rooms. More labour-intensive methods include insulating the house from the ground. 
 
	  Suppliers 
 
	CR39 can be bought from optical lens manufacturers or from suppliers of radon detectors  w4   (see  Figures 1  and  2 ). Optical lens manufacturers sell the plastic material (CR39) cut into any shape (about €1), while the detector suppliers sell a calibrated, ready to use, CR39 radon dosimeter (about €7). One suggestion is to use the cheaper option for a yes/no measurement, reserving the more expensive detectors for places where radon has already been detected. 
 
	We use a cheap Konus Academy microscope  w5   (models 5304 & 5829) with a micro camera and the associated imaging software (see  Figure 4 ). 
 
	 
		The RSS project 
	 
		The RSS project is very multidisciplinary, involving not only physics but also chemistry, geology (for soil properties), mathematics (involving, for example, the exponential decay law and Poisson distribution of tracks), and social considerations (incidence of radon risks). 
	 
		The topic sheds some light on the ‘dark mysteries’ of radioactivity and is socially relevant, especially in a radon-prone area like our region; students and their parents are usually curious to know the radon level in their houses. So far, the project has involved almost 5000 people in our region – students, families, teachers and school personnel – making them aware of a health risk. 
	 
		Besides measuring radon, the other major goal of this project is to interest high-school students in science and scientific careers, by getting them to take part in a real scientific study, carrying out the measurements themselves. Students are made aware that we are surrounded by science and that it is possible to do serious science in everyday life, with simple equipment. 
	 
		The organisers of the project and many of the participants are now involved in a further project  w7   – to investigate the levels of  137 caesium left in their region as a result of the Chernobyl accident in 1986. 
 
 
	Acknowledgements 
 
	We would like to thank all students, teachers, school personnel and families involved in the project and our collaboration partners, the local environment protection agency, ARPAF-VG  w6  . 
 
	We gratefully acknowledge the support of our sponsors  w3  , Progetto Lauree Scientifiche, INFN and the Physics Department of the University of Trieste. 
 
	References 
 
	  The Commission of the European Community (1990) Commission Recommendation on the Protection of the Public against Indoor Exposure to Radon (90/143/Euratom).  http://ec.europa.eu/energy/nuclear/radioprotection/doc/legislation/90143_en.pdf  
 
	Web references 
 
	  w1 – For more information about radon, see the websites of the UK Health Protection Agency ( www.hpa.org.uk) , the US Environmental Protection Agency ( www.epa.gov ) and the Swiss Federal Office of Public Health ( www.bag.admin.ch , in English, Italian, French and German). 
 
	  w2 – Further information about the RSS project and detailed protocols for both the measurements and data collection are available on the following websites. 
	For a presentation about the project (in Italian), see:  www.ts.infn.it/eventi/ComunicareFisica/presentazioni/vascotto.pdf  
 
	 
		For presentations about the project (in both English and Italian), see also the Fisica a Trieste website:  http://physics.units.it/didattica03/orientamento/laboratori.php  
 
 
	  w3 – The RSS project was funded by: 
	Progetto Lauree Scientifiche, an Italian national project to disseminate scientific culture and raise interest in scientific disciplines and careers; see:  www.progettolaureescientifiche.it  
 
	 
		INFN, the Italian National Institute for Nuclear Physics. See:  www.infn.it  
	 
		The Physics Department of the University of Trieste; see:  http://physics.units.it  
 
 
	  w4 – Suppliers of CR39 include: 
 
	 
		Intercast Europe (cheap CR39 without calibration):  www.intercast.it  
	 
		FGM Ambiente (CR39 calibrated dosimeters):  www.fgmambiente.it  
	 
		Radosys (CR39 calibrated dosimeters):  www.radosys.com  
	 
		TASL (CR39 manufacturer):  www.tasl.co.uk  
 
 
	  w5 – For more information about Konus (including their microscopes and micro cameras), see:  www.konus.com  
 
	  w6 – ARPA-FVG is the regional environmental protection agency of Friuli Venezia Giulia. For more information, see:  www.arpafvg.it  
 
	  w7 – For more information about the caesium project, see the (Italian) project web page ( http://physics.units.it/didattica03/orientamento/laboratori.php#cesio ) or contact Marco Budinich directly ( marco.budinich@ts.infn.it ) 
 
	  w8 – See Marco Budinich’s web page:  wwwusers.ts.infn.it/~mbh/MBHgeneral.html  
 
	Resources 
 
	If you enjoyed this article, you might also like to read other articles on science education projects in Science in School. See:  www.scienceinschool.org/projects  
 
 
	Marco Budinich  w8   is a physicist at the University of Trieste, Italy, where he is responsible for the outreach activities of the physics department. 
 
	Massimo Vascotto, the project coordinator, has a degree in physics and teaches maritime disciplines (e.g. navigation, meteorology and oceanography) at a nautical high school (for trainee marines) in Trieste. He has collaborated for many years with the physics department at the University of Trieste and with INFN, the Italian National Institute for Nuclear Physics, where he is an associate physicist in science communication projects. 
 
	 
		Review 
	 
		This project shows how the teaching of radioactivity, which is usually a classroom-based topic, can be extended outside the school. Students test for the presence of radon in their own homes and then perform more thorough analyses in the school laboratory; the fact that they can in effect ‘see’ the radiation makes it less abstract. This will motivate the students to research the effects of radon and other sources of radiation, and to conduct careful analyses and detailed interpretation of the results. 
	 
		Most of the apparatus and materials indicated by the authors are commonly found in a science laboratory. This encourages teachers to try this project with their own students so that they can actually see the effects of radiation in their own homes. Such a project instils in students an investigative approach towards science. 
	 
		The article can be used in physics lessons to introduce the topic of radioactivity (types of radiation, background radiation, effects of radiation). It could also be used in chemistry (radioactive elements), geology (soil and rock properties) or advanced mathematics (exponential decay and the Poisson distribution) lessons. Moreover, being a rather sensitive topic, it can be extended to class discussions on how radioactivity can be used to serve humanity, and what can happen when radioactivity reaches alarming levels. 
	 
		Catherine Cutajar, Malta 
	 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
				 
					 
						Referee's recommendations: Physics, Chemistry, Earth sciences, Mathematics, Radioactivity, Geology 
				 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				   
			 
				   
			 
				   
			 
				   
		 
	 
 
   

   
     
              Science education projects    Chemistry    Earth science    Interdisciplinary    Mathematics    Physics    Japan    Issue 14    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 3594 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note