Neutrons and antifreeze: research into Arctic fish | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 20 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       The intracellular environment: not so muddy waters  
  Silken, stretchy and stronger than steel!  
  Is climate change all gloom and doom? Introducing stabilisation wedges  
  Building a space habitat in the classroom  
  Single molecules under the microscope  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                               
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 20  » Neutrons and antifreeze: research into Arctic fish 			             Neutrons and antifreeze: research into Arctic fish                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by brown on 23 August 2011 

 



  
   
    
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				The shorthorn sculpin (Myoxocephalus scorpius) also has antifreeze proteins 
				Public domain image; image source: Wikimedia Commons 
			 
				 
					Matthew Blakeley from ILL and his colleagues from ESRF and elsewhere have discovered how antifreeze in Arctic fish blood keeps them alive in sub-zero conditions. He and Eleanor Hayes explain. 
				 
					When we think of the Arctic, many of us think of icebergs, polar bears and seals. Freezing temperatures, icy winds and desolate snowy wastes – a challenge to any animal that lives there. 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					We are familiar with many of the ways in which Arctic animals have adapted to their environment: the deep fur of polar bears, the thick blubber layer of seals, the migratory habits of many birds. These animals, however, are all endotherms – they maintain a constant body temperature, well above that of their icy surroundings. 
				 
					For fish, the situation is very different – they are mostly exotherms, which means that their bodies are the same temperature as their surroundings. And their surroundings are very cold indeed: the Arctic Ocean frequently reaches temperatures as low as -1 °C, when it is only prevented from freezing by the high salt content of the water. 
			 
			 
				 
				Icy Arctic conditions have forced animals to evolve some remarkable adaptations  
				Image courtesy of ucumari; image source: Flickr  
		 
	 
 
 
	Fish blood, which is considerably less salty, would be expected to freeze at -0.5 °C. To avoid this, Arctic fish have evolved specialised antifreeze proteins (AFPs). 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				Image courtesy of Rita Willaert; image source: Flickr 
			 
				 
					AFPs have a complex task. To prevent the fish from freezing to death, they must bind to ice-crystal nuclei forming in the fish’s body, preventing the nuclei from growing into ice crystals. How, though, do they distinguish ice from liquid water? 
				 
					AFPs have been extensively studied using many techniques, including X-ray diffraction, revealing the existence of a specialised ice-binding surface. 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	X-ray diffraction relies on the degree to which X-rays are scattered (diffracted) by the electron cloud of each atom. Many molecules have distinctive diffraction patterns. However, hydrogen (and deuterium) atoms, which have only one electron, scatter X-rays very little ( Figure 1a , below), so the X-ray diffraction signal for water (H 2 O) is much the same as for oxygen atoms (O). As a result, when scientists tried to examine how the ice-binding surface interacts with ice, they were unable to identify all the water molecules on the surface. 
 
	     Figure 1. Click on image to enlarge 
	a) X-rays are scattered by electrons, with the strength of the scattering (size of the red balls) being proportional to the number of electrons. 
	b) Neutrons are scattered by nuclei, with the strength of the scattering (size of the green balls) depending on the specific nuclear forces 
	Image courtesy of Matthew Blakeley 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					This is where a second technique, neutron diffraction, is beneficial. Neutrons are scattered by atomic nuclei rather than electrons, and the strength of the scattering depends on the specific nuclear forces. These forces in turn depend not only on the elements but also on the elements’ isotopes, which differ in the number of neutrons in their nucleus ( Figure 1b , above). Fortunately for us, hydrogen atoms can be easily detected by neutron scattering and the hydrogen isotope deuterium (heavy hydrogen, which has an extra neutron) can be detected even more reliably. Thus the signal for water is significantly different from that of oxygen. 
			 
			 
				 
				The scientists studied the antifreeze proteins of the ocean pout, Zoarces americanus 
				Image courtesy of Derek Keats; image source: Flickr 
		 
	 
 
 
	We (Matthew Blakeley and his scientist colleagues) decided to investigate one type of AFP found in Arctic fish blood: type-III AFPs. To avoid the problems faced by other researchers, we used a combination of X-ray and neutron diffraction to examine the structure of the protein and its interactions with water molecules. For our experiments, we used the facilities at the Institute Laue-Langevin (ILL)  w1   and the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF  w2  ; see  box , below). The neutron research with such small crystal volumes was only possible due to the advances in sample preparation and instrumentation that have taken place at ILL over the past few years. 
 
	As is typical in investigations of protein structures, we inserted the synthetic gene for the type-III AFP into Escherichia coli, where it was over-expressed to allow us to collect sufficient amounts of the protein. The bacteria were supplied with heavy water (containing deuterium instead of normal hydrogen atoms), to ensure that the resulting protein was perdeuterated: the positions of all H atoms were occupied by deuterium. We then crystallised the protein so that we could determine its structure, checking that the perdeuterated form had the same structure as the normal form. (See  Cornuéjols, 2009 , and  Blattmann & Sticher, 2009 , to learn more about protein crystallography and even try it yourself.) 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					  Part of the answer to how type-III AFPs distinguish ice from liquid water lies in how the structure of the AFPs differs from that of typical proteins, which normally have hydrophobic amino acids in the core (away from water molecules in their surroundings) and hydrophilic amino acids on the surface. As has been shown by previous researchers, AFPs are unusual in having many hydrophobic amino acids on their surface, preventing the protein binding to liquid water via hydrogen bonds. These hydrophobic amino acids form part of the ice-binding surface, which binds to ice nuclei but not liquid water. How does this work? 
			 
			 
				   
				Figure 2: The six-membered water ring. D = deuterium; O = oxygen. Click on image to enlarge 
				Image courtesy of Nicola Graf 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				   
				Figure 3: The interface between ice (shown as red and grey balls) and the ice-binding site, showing the methyl groups of the hydrophobic residues Thr-18, Val-20 and Met-21, which face the holes in the ice structure. Click on image to enlarge 
				Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd; image source: Howard et al. (2011) 
			 
				 
					  Herein lies the second part of the answer: how the structure of ice differs from that of liquid water. Using neutron diffraction, we were able to locate the positions of water molecules on the ice-binding surface. We identified a tetrahedral cluster of water molecules bound to the protein’s ice-binding surface. This tetrahedral cluster is found in liquid water (as in our experiment) but is also typical of ice; this gave us the starting point for modelling the rest of the ice crystal and deducing how it would bind to the AFP. The resulting model is composed of six-membered water rings in what is known as a boat configuration: six water molecules in a hexagonal arrangement, leaving a hole in the middle (see  Figure 2 , above). It is this hole that enables the type-III AFPs to distinguish the structure of ice-crystal nuclei from that of water: the hydrophobic regions of the ice-binding site fit into the holes, binding with the ice via Van der Waals forces ( Figure 3 , below). In contrast, liquid water has no hole into which hydrophobic regions such as methyl groups can fit. This prevents a large contact surface between liquid water and the ice-binding site, which would be necessary for a tight interaction. 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	Although other researchers have proposed that hydrophobic residues play an important role in how type-III AFPs recognise ice-crystal nuclei, this is the first experimental data that confirms it. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					In itself, it is interesting to learn more about how Arctic fish survive in their environment, but this research also has potential industrial applications. Already, type-III AFPs are incorporated into some ice cream to minimise the build-up of large ice crystals and thus improve the consistency. In future, genes that code for AFPs may be incorporated into crops to allow them to be grown in sub-zero environments. 
			 
			 
				 
				What might happen to fish in the Arctic without antifreeze proteins? 
				Image courtesy of dwleindecker / iStockphoto 
		 
	 
 
 
 
	 
		  More about ILL and ESRF 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
						The Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL)  w1   is an international research centre at the leading edge of neutron science and technology. It operates one of the most intense neutron sources in the world, feeding beams of neutrons to a suite of 40 high-performance instruments that are constantly upgraded. 
					 
						As a service institute, ILL makes its facilities and expertise available to visiting scientists. Every year, some 1200 researchers from more than 30 countries visit ILL in Grenoble, France. More than 800 experiments are performed every year, focused primarily on fundamental science in a variety of fields: condensed matter physics, chemistry, biology, nuclear physics and materials science. 
					 
						To browse all ILL-related articles in Science in School, see:  www.scienceinschool.org/ill  
					 
						The European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF)  w2   is an international research centre, sharing a site with ILL in Grenoble, France. It produces high-brilliance X-ray beams, which serve thousands of scientists from all over the world, every year. 
					 
						The complementarity of synchrotron X-ray beams and neutron beams can help us understand how complex systems work, such as the AFPs described in this article. To take full advantage of the synergy between synchrotron and neutron sciences, ESRF and ILL have been key actors in the creation of the Partnership for Structural Biology (PSB) and the Partnership for Soft-Condensed Matter; further partnerships are foreseen in the near future. 
				 
				 
					 
					 
					 
					 
					 
			 
		 
	 
	 
		ILL and ESRF are members of EIROforum  w3  , the publisher of Science in School. 
	 
		To see all ESRF-related articles in Science in School, see:  www.scienceinschool.org/esrf  
 
 
	References 
 
	  Blattmann B, Sticher P (2009) Growing crystals from protein. Science in School 11: 30-36.  www.scienceinschool.org/2009/issue11/lysozyme  
 
	  Cornuéjols D (2009) Biological crystals: at the interface between physics, chemistry and biology. Science in School 11: 70-76.  www.scienceinschool.org/2009/issue11/crystallography  
 
	  Howard EI, Blakeley MP et al. (2011) Neutron structure of type-III antifreeze protein allows the reconstruction of AFP–ice interface. Journal of Molecular Recognition 24: 724-732. doi:  10.1002/jmr.1130  
 
	Web references 
 
	  w1 – To learn more about ILL, see:  www.ill.eu  
 
	  w2 – To find out more about ESRF and PSB, see  www.esrf.eu  and  www.psb-grenoble.eu  
 
	  w3 – For more information about EIROforum, see:  www.eiroforum.org  
 
	Resource 
 
	If you enjoyed this article, you may like the other cutting-edge science articles in Science in School. See  www.scienceinschool.org/cuttingedge  
 
 
	Dr Matthew Blakeley is the instrument scientist responsible for the macromolecular neutron diffractometer LADI-III at ILL. After graduating from the University of Manchester, UK, with a first-class degree in chemistry, Matthew completed his PhD in 2003. He then undertook postdoctoral research until 2007 at the European Molecular Biology Laboratory outstation in Grenoble, France, after which he took up his current position. His research interests are neutron crystallography instrumentation and method development, structural chemistry and structural biology. 
 
	Dr Eleanor Hayes is the editor-in-chief of Science in School. She studied zoology at the University of Oxford, UK, and completed a PhD in insect ecology. She then spent some time working in university administration before moving to Germany and into science publishing, initially for a bioinformatics company and then for a learned society. In 2005, she moved to the European Molecular Biology Laboratory to launch Science in School. 
 
	 
		Review 
	 
		If you have ever wondered how fish can survive in icy oceans, you can find the answer in this highly engaging article, which leads the reader through a scientific investigation into the structure of proteins and their interactions. 
	 
		The article could be used as background reading when studying biomolecules or as the basis of a discussion about the role of proteins in living organisms. Suitable comprehension questions include: 
	 
		 
			Describe how Arctic fish are adapted to the icy Arctic waters. 
		 
		 
			How do AFPs act as antifreeze in the fish’s blood? 
		 
		 
			What are the limitations of X-ray diffraction when analysing AFPs? 
		 
		 
			How does neutron diffraction differ from X-ray diffraction? 
		 
		 
			Describe the steps involved in the successful examination of the AFP’s structure. 
		 
		 
			How do AFPs differ from other proteins? 
		 
		 
			How do AFPs distinguish ice from liquid water molecules? 
	 
	 
		Angela Charles, Malta 
	 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
				 
					 
						Referee's recommendations: Biology, Biochemistry, Chemistry, Physics, Interdisciplinary, Adaptations to the environment, Crystal structure, Protein structure, X-ray diffraction techniques 
						Ages 16+ 
				 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				   
			 
				   
			 
				   
		 
	 
 
 
	  
   

   
     
              Cutting-edge science    Biology    Chemistry    Physics    Issue 20    English    ESRF    ILL       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 903 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note