ESOF 2006: science close up and personal | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 3 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Mars, snakes, robots and DNA  
  EIROforum: introducing the publisher of Science in School  
  Warrior against pseudoscience: Daniella Muallem  
  Plastics in cars: polymerisation and recycling  
  Is climate change all gloom and doom? Introducing stabilisation wedges  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                                                 
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 3  » ESOF 2006: science close up and personal 			             ESOF 2006: science close up and personal                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by sis on 20 December 2006 

 



  
   
    	             		Students and scientists communicating across the globe           Image courtesy of Hans Hermann Heyer, ESO ©		   		 How do I become a star-chaser? How do we recognise particles that we don’t know? When will fusion power become available to mankind? Sabina Griffith from the  European Fusion Development Agreement  in Garching, Germany, describes the guided round-the-world trip through the science of the  EIROforum  organisations. 		     	   At first, only a few of the audience dared to ask. Then one after the other, they realised that this might be a once-in-a-lifetime chance. How often do you get to talk to an astronomer on his way home after a long night shift under the world’s largest telescope in the Chilean Atacama Desert?  	   More than 80 students, pupils and teachers from schools in and around Munich, Germany, took the chance and attended the live video conference that linked to six leading European research institutes:  CERN  in Geneva, Switzerland,  ESO  in Chile,  JET  in Culham, UK, and the joint site of  EMBL ,  ILL  and  ESRF  in Grenoble, France. The videolink was part of this year’s European Open Science Forum (ESOF), taking place from 15-19 July 2006 in the  Deutsches Museum  in Munich. Its intention was to give young people the possibility to interact with representatives of the scientific community and, by doing so, hopefully raise their interest in research and perhaps a scientific career.  	   Geneva, Switzerland  		 The round-the-world trip guided by Rolf Landua from CERN started in the Swiss Alps, in Geneva, home of CERN and more than 3000 scientists and engineers from all over the world. One of them is Anne-Sylvie Giolo-Nicollerat, a physicist who is part of a team building the detector for CERN’s new flagship, the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). The LHC is a particle accelerator which will probe into matter deeper than ever before. The first collision is due to start in 2007.  		  		     	          Inside the Large Hadron Collider            Image courtesy of Hans Hermann Heyer, ESO ©   		 Heavy welding and hammering was going on inside the cavern where the detector is currently being built when the young scientist wearing a yellow helmet walked up to the camera and microphone that had been installed for the live videolink. “As you can see,” Anne addressed the audience gathered in the Deutsches Museum, “we have to build very large machines to detect very small particles.” 		     		 With the LHC, the scientists at CERN hope to gain new information about the origin of the Universe. And the new detector Anne and her team are constructing will help them to do so. “This machine can take more than one billion pictures per second with one million pixels per picture,” Anne explained. “But how do you detect particles that you don’t know?” a young girl wanted to know. “Thanks to computer models, we know pretty well what to expect,” Anne replied. “Nevertheless the unexpected happens. That’s always thrilling and sends the theoreticians back to their desks.”  		 But it wasn’t only the scientific aspect of Anne’s work in which the young listeners expressed an interest. When it was their turn to ask questions, they wanted to know why she had chosen to be a physicist, a career in what (in their eyes) is still a man’s world. “I was always interested in books about the Big Bang,” Anne replied. “I guess I just wanted to know how it worked. And yes,” she added, “there are still more men around in this field than women. But that has never been a problem for me.”   		 Paranal, Chile  		 From Geneva, the journey continued across the Atlantic Ocean to the Atacama Desert in Chile, where the German astronomer Daniel Kubas was expecting the virtual travellers from Munich. At six o’clock in the morning local time, Kubas had just returned from his night watch scanning the Universe with ESO’s impressive machine, the Very Large Telescope. Though obviously tired, he still had enough energy to explain all the questions about Einstein Rings, gravitational lenses and the capacity of the ESO telescope. Its resolution is comparable with the Hubble Space Telescope, Kubas said – and gave the young listeners a stunning example of what that means. “If there was a car driving on the Moon, we would be able to distinguish the two front lights.” But if they could do so, had they found any evidence that Americans had ever set foot on the Moon, a young listener wanted to know? Not yet, it seems.  		 Culham, UK  		 At 12.25 GMT the satellite link switched back to Europe to connect the audience with Marco de Baar and Sandra Grünhagen at the Joint European Torus (JET) in Culham, UK. Sitting in the heart of ‘Ground Control’, the two physicists explained the principles and aims of fusion in general and in detail.  		  		    		 “When will the technique that will be tested in the ITER project, the next step in the development of fusion energy, be ready for commercial use?” the audience wanted to know. The answer? If ITER is a success, the first commercial fusion power plants are expected in some 40 years.  		 “What is work like at an international place like JET?” The response: “Thrilling”. This big project involves not only many different nationalities, but also different cultures.     	          Master of ceremonies            Image courtesy of Hans Hermann Heyer, ESO ©	           		 Finally, “Is there a chance for engineers to participate?” ITER is a large, complex device, which will be used by physicists, but is largely being developed and built by engineers. So there are lots of possibilities!  		 Grenoble, France  		 The final stop on the round-the-world trip was Grenoble, home to the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF), the European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) and the Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL). Although the laboratories use different methods, neutron-beam or X-ray, some of their work overlaps: investigating the structures of molecules and proteins. The results of their research deliver important information for the development of drug treatments as well as new materials. “Sometimes we test very old ones too,” Christoph Müller explained, live from his lab at EMBL. “For example, we are currently investigating what gives wood its excellent mechanical properties.”   		 One and a half hours after takeoff in Geneva, the trip to the frontiers of science returned to the cinema theatre in Munich. A trip that might be just the beginning of a promising journey of investigation for some of the audience.  		 Resources  		 EIROforum is a partnership of Europe’s seven largest intergovernmental research organisations. In EIROforum, these organisations pursue joint initiatives, combine resources, and share best practices. Not only does EIROforum publish Science in School, it also organises Science on Stage, an international science teaching festival that brings together around 500 science educators from 29 European countries to show how fascinating and entertaining science can be. For more information about EIROforum and its initiatives, see  here .  		 The European Science Open Forum (ESOF) aims to bring together all groups involved in the scientific endeavour, including researchers, policy-makers, representatives of industrial research and development, science journalists and the general public. It is organised by Euroscience, an organisation of research professionals, science administrators, policy-makers, teachers, PhD students, post-doctoral researchers, engineers, industrialists, and any citizen interested in science and technology and its links with society. For more information about ESOF 2006, see  here .  		 For more information about Euroscience, see  here .  		                        

   
     
              Event reports    Astronomy    Biology    Physics    Science    Issue 3    English    EIROforum    CERN    EFDA-JET    EMBL    ESA    ESO    ESRF    ILL       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 3775 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note