Guidelines for referee panel | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   
 



 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
   Home   » Guidelines for referee panel 
                     Guidelines for referee panel           
          
                    
            

 



            Last updated Wed, 2010-06-09 14:34 — sis
      
   
           To ensure that all articles in Science in School  are interesting, inspiring and, above all, useful to our readers, they are reviewed by a panel of European science teachers. 
 Joining the referee panel 
       If you are a European science teacher and would like to join the Science in School referee panel, please send an email to  editor@scienceinschool.org , describing your teaching experience and the subjects you specialise in.  
       Timing 
       Shortly before we begin editing the articles for each issue, we send out an email to all our referees, asking if they have time to review articles in the next couple of months. We only send articles to those who confirm that they have time. 
       We try to give our referees at least two weekends to review the article. Sometimes we require a turnaround of as little as a week. If you are likely to need longer than this, please let us know.       
       Reviewing an article  
       When reviewing an article for Science in School, please complete and return the review form (downloadable  here ). 
       In the form, you are asked to assess the style, level of detail and rigour of the article. You should also suggest how the article could be used by teachers (syllabus subjects, discussion topics or comprehension questions) and whether it could be made more appropriate for a European-wide audience. 
       If you recommend that the article is published, you should write a few paragraphs to be published together with the article. Please do not summarise the article; instead, please indicate briefly how Science in School readers could use the article. 
       If we publish your comments, we will also mention your name and country.    

   
     
         

             13684 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

            
                        
          
                       Return to top of page  
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note