Copyright | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   
 



 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
  Home  » Copyright 
                     Copyright           
          
                    
            

 



            Last updated Sun, 2011-06-26 13:07 — sis
      
   
      With very few exceptions, articles in Science in School are published under  Creative Commons  copyright licences that allow the text to be re-used non-commercially.
 Note that the copyright agreements refer to the text of the articles and not to the images. You may republish the text according to the licences below, but you may not reproduce the images without the consent of the copyright holder.
 Most Science in School articles will carry one of two copyright licences:
 
   
    1. Attribution non-commercial share alike  
        
      
      
	      
   
   
 This license lets you remix, tweak, and build upon the author’s work non-commercially, as long as you credit the author and license their new creations under  identical terms. You can download and redistribute the author’s work, but you can also translate or produce new stories based on the work. All new work based on the author’s work will carry the same license, so any derivatives will also be non-commercial in nature. 
 Furthermore, you may not imply that the derivative work is endorsed or approved by the author of the original work or by Science in School. 

 
   
      2. Attribution non-commercial no derivatives  
      
      
      
   
 
 This license is often called the ’free advertising’ license because it allows you to download the author’s works and share them with others as long as you mention the author and link back to the author, but you cannot change them in any way or use them commercially. 
 Explanation of the copyright symbols 
 
   
        
	   
	   Attribution 
	   
	   
	   
      
		   
	   No commercial use  
	   
	     
	   
      
	   
	   Share and share alike  
	   
	     
	   
	      
	   
	   No endorsement  
	   
	     
	   
		      
	   
	   No derivative works  
	   		
   
   
 For further details, see  http://creativecommons.org  All articles in Science in School  carry the relevant copyright logos  or other copyright notice.    

   
     
         

             25865 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

            
                        
          
                       Return to top of page  
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note