Imprint | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   
 



 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
  Home  » Imprint 
                     Imprint           
          
                    
            

 



            Last updated Mon, 2011-11-07 16:20 — sis
      
   
     Publisher 
     
        EIROforum , a partnership between eight of Europe’s largest inter-governmental scientific research organisations. See  below . 
     
     Editor-in-chief 
     
       Dr Eleanor Hayes,  European Molecular Biology Laboratory , Germany 
     
      Editor  
     
       Dr Marlene Rau,  European Molecular Biology Laboratory , Germany 
     	
     Editorial board 
     
       Dr Giovanna Cicognani,  Institut Laue-Langevin , France  
       Dr Dominique Cornuéjols,  European Synchrotron Radiation Facility , France  
       Elke Delvoye,  European Space Agency , the Netherlands  
       Russ Hodge,  Max Delbrück Zentrum , Germany  
       Dr Rolf Landua,  European Organization for Nuclear Research  (CERN), Switzerland  
       Dr Dean Madden,  National Centre for Biotechnology Education , University of Reading, UK  
       Dr Douglas Pierce-Price,  European Southern Observatory   (ESO), Germany 
       
       Lena Raditsch ,  European Molecular Biology Laboratory , Germany 
       
	   Dr Fernand Wagner,  European Association for Astronomy Education , Luxembourg  
       
       Chris Warrick,  European Fusion Development Agreement , UK 
     
     Copy editor 
     
       Dr Caroline Hadley       
     
     Composition 
     
       Nicola Graf ( nicolagraf@t-online.de ) 
     
     Printer 
     
        ColorDruckLeimen , Germany 
     
 Web developer 
     
       Alexander Kubias,         Alperion GmbH , Germany 
     
     ISSN 
     
       Print version: 1818-0353 
        Online version: 1818-0361 
       
         EIROforum 
       Science in School is published and funded by  EIROforum , a partnership between eight of Europe’s largest inter-governmental scientific research organisations. 
       CERN 
       The European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) is one of the world’s most prestigious research centres. Its main mission is fundamental physics – finding out what makes our Universe work, where it came from, and where it is going. See:  www.cern.ch  
       EFDA-JET 
       The Joint European Torus (JET) investigates the potential of fusion as a safe, clean, and virtually limitless energy source for future generations. It can create the conditions (100-200 million °C) in the plasma sufficient for fusion of deuterium and tritium nuclei to occur – and it has observed fusion power to a maximum of 16 MW. As a joint venture, JET is collectively used by more than 40 European fusion laboratories. The European Fusion Development Agreement (EFDA) provides the platform to exploit JET, with more than 350 scientists and engineers from all over Europe currently contribute to the JET programme. See:  www.jet.efda.org  
       EMBL 
       The European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) is one of the world’s top research institutions, dedicated to basic research in the life sciences. EMBL is international, innovative and interdisciplinary. Its employees from 60 nations have backgrounds including biology, physics, chemistry and computer science, and collaborate on research that covers the full spectrum of molecular biology. See:  www.embl.org  
       ESA 
       The European Space Agency (ESA) is Europe’s gateway to space. Its mission is to shape the development of Europe’s space capability and ensure that investment in space continues to deliver benefits to the citizens of Europe and the world. See:  www.esa.int  
       ESO 
       The European Southern Observatory (ESO) is the foremost inter-governmental astronomy organisation in Europe and the world’s most productive astronomical observatory. It operates telescopes at three sites in Chile — La Silla, Paranal and Chajnantor — on behalf of its fifteen member states. At Paranal, ESO’s Very Large Telescope is the world’s most advanced visible-light astronomical observatory. ESO is the European partner of the revolutionary astronomical telescope ALMA, and is planning a 40-metre-class European Extremely Large optical/near-infrared Telescope, the E-ELT. See:  www.eso.org  
       ESRF 
       The European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) is one of the most intense sources of X-rays in the world. Thousands of scientists come every year to the ESRF to carry out experiments in materials science, biology, medicine, physics, chemistry, environmental science and even palaeontology and cultural heritage. See:  www.esrf.eu  
             European XFEL 
 The European XFEL is a research facility currently under construction in the Hamburg area of Germany. It will generate extremely intense X-ray flashes to be used by researchers from all over the world. See:  www.xfel.eu  
 ILL 
       The Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL) is an international research centre operating the most intense steady neutron source in the world. Every year, more than 800 experiments are performed  by about 2000 scientists coming from all over the world. Research focuses on science in a variety of fields: condensed matter physics, chemistry, biology, nuclear physics and materials science. See:  www.ill.eu     

   
     
         

             14585 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

            
                        
          
                       Return to top of page  
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note