Guidelines for translators | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   
 



 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
   Home   » Guidelines for translators 
                     Guidelines for translators           
          
                    
            

 



            Last updated Tue, 2011-04-12 11:58 — sis
      
   
     
	Science in School aims to promote inspiring science teaching across Europe. For this reason, we publish articles online in several European languages. 
 
	We are very grateful to all teachers and scientists who volunteer to translate articles in Science in School from English into their native languages. If you are interested in helping, please email us ( editor@scienceinschool.org ), detailing your language skills, involvement in science / science education and translation experience. 
 
	We will provide the English articles as Word (.doc) or rich text format (.rtf) files and the finished translations should be returned in this format. Please translate the whole article, including the title, 'translated by', introduction, figure legends and (if present) the review at the end. Each translated paragraph should be written next to the corresponding English paragraph in the tabulated article. This helps us to identify which paragraph is which. Please note that some words will have a special kind of formatting (in italics, underlined, or bold) - please maintain this formatting, as it helps us identify the corresponding words or phrases in your translation. We may, for example, want to attach a link to the words or phrases, as in the English original. 
 
	The translation should present the information in the original article concisely, accurately and comprehensibly. Science in School aims for an engaging, journalistic style, and this style should be maintained in translation. Avoid translating literally (word for word). 
 
	You are very welcome to make comments on the article or suggestions for improvements or further resources to include. However, please send us these suggestions in an email and do not add them to the translated article itself. 
 
	We feel that translating a review (for example of a book, CD-ROM or website) only really makes sense if the reviewed material is also available in the language that you are translating into. Those readers who cannot understand the review in one language (e.g. English), probably cannot appreciate the materials in that language either. If you do translate a review, please make sure you include the original (probably English) title, so that readers can find it. 
 
	Please do not translate or change the names of people mentioned in the articles. If you need to transliterate a person's name (if the language you are translating into does not use the Latin alphabet), make sure you include the original (Latin) name in brackets the first time it is mentioned in the main text. 
 
	If you translate the names of institutions / organisations / projects etc., make sure you include the original name in brackets. 
 
	In the References, Web references and Resources sections, do not translate references for books or articles. The title should remain in the original language (mostly English), unless the work is also published in the language into which you are translating (in which case, if you mention the version in that language, please also include the correct details for the translated version, e.g. publisher, publication year, ISBN number etc). If you do wish to give the translated title of the publication although it is not available in your language, please enclose it in brackets after the original title. 
 
	Finally, as we are not able to copyedit translations, we would be grateful if you could carefully check your text for spelling and grammatical errors. You may find it helpful to ask a friend to do this for you. 
 
	Common errors 
 
	Please be aware of the following common errors made by translators. 
 
	Failure to maintain the correct formatting 
 
	Here, the translator failed to embolden ‘selective pressure’: 
 
	 
 
	Missing translation: referee’s country of origin 
 
	Because this was part of a French translation, 'Greece' should have been translated to 'Grèce': 
 
	 
 
	Missing translation: ‘here’ 
 
	In the references section, the word ‘here’ is often made into a hyperlink. Care should therefore be taken to ensure it is translated: 
 
	 
   

   
     
         

             24850 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

            
                        
          
                       Return to top of page  
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note