Science in School | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 


   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
 
  
   
                 Science in School         
        
                        

 



            Last updated Tue, 2011-09-20 11:14 — rau
      
   
    
 
	 Issue 20 is now available  
   

   
     
         

             617914 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

          
			 


    
 

 
  
 
         
         
			 


    
    
  
  
       
       
     
             
   
                 Neutrons and antifreeze: research into Arctic fish 
   
 
             
   
                 More than meets the eye: the electromagnetic spectrum 
   
 
             
   
                 Healthy horrors: the benefits of parasites 
   
 
             
   
                 Fizzy fun: CO2 in primary school science 
   
 
             
   
                 Hunting for asteroids 
   
 
       
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
        
              More 
         
                  
   
   
  		 
        	 

   Highlighted articles 

    
    
  
  
       
      


    
  
   
                 The International Space Station: a foothold in space 
   
  
   
                                       		  		 In the first of two articles, Shamim Hartevelt-Velani and Carl Walker from the  European Space Agency  take us on a trip to the International Space Station. 		          	     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Building a space habitat in the classroom 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					What does it take to live on the Moon or even Mars? Erin Tranfield suggests an interdisciplinary teaching activity to get your students thinking about this – and learning a lot of science along the way. 
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Combating earthquakes: designing and testing anti-seismic buildings 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Earthquakes can be devastating. Is there anything we can do to resist them? Francesco Marazzi and Daniel Tirelli explain how earthquake-proof buildings are designed and tested. 
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Second European Science Festival: WONDERS 2007 
   
  
   
                                       		  		 Peter Rebernik from the  WONDERS  project describes a ride in the Carousel of Science from Moscow to Lisbon, Reykjavik to Jerusalem. Perhaps even in your town!           	     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 A search for the origins of the brain 
   
  
   
                               		    		   		 Detlev Arendt, a molecular biologist at the  European Molecular Biology Laboratory , Heidelberg, Germany, describes to Russ Hodge how his cutting-edge research is following in the footsteps of a 19th-century scientist.      
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Plasma balls: creating the 4th state of matter with microwaves 
   
  
   
                  
       
          
		 
		 Halina Stanley describes how two Israeli scientists investigated plasma balls and in the process found a potentially useful way to create nanoparticles.  
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Hot stuff in the deep sea 
   
  
   
                  
	     
          
		 
		 How do fossils form around hydrothermal vents? Crispin Little describes how he and his team found out – by making their own fossils. 
		 
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Virtual reality: the Haptic Cow 
   
  
   
                  
       
          
		 
		 With the help of former vet, Sarah Baillie, Vienna Leigh takes us on a virtual reality trip – deep into a cow’s insides! 
		 
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Teaching on the move 
   
  
   
                  
       
          
		 
		 Jeanne Keweloh is a substitute teacher, going wherever she is needed to share her passion for science. She tells Sonia Furtado about the ups and downs of teaching on the move, and shares some of her strategies.  
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 The ALMA Observatory: the sky is only one step away 
   
  
   
                  
	     
           
		 
		 Claudia Mignone and Douglas Pierce-Price take us on a trip to the Chilean Andes, to the site of ALMA, the world’s largest radio astronomy facility, which is set to discover the secrets of our cosmic origins.  
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 A zoologist at school: my pupils and other animals 
   
  
   
                             		    		   		 Silvia Boi, a science teacher from Italy, explains how her fascination with science led her to study ant behaviour, worm reproduction and the human genome – and how she now tries to awaken that fascination in her pupils, using somewhat unusual techniques.  		    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Those who can, teach 
   
  
   
                  Adrian Dow originally wanted to be a bank manager but is now a mathematics teacher. He explains to Marianne Freiberger how his enthusiasm for teaching developed - and what his plans are for the future.  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Blind date in the science classroom 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Biology and chemistry teacher Werner Liese talks to Marlene Rau about the challenges of performing science experiments with blind and visually impaired students. 
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Forensic entomology 
   
  
   
                               		    		 Are you a biologist with a mission? Do you want to fight crime with science? Martin Hall and Amoret Brandt from  The Natural History Museum  in London, UK, introduce the fascinating (and smelly) field of forensic entomology.      
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Educational resources for the International Year of Biodiversity 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					The United Nations has declared 2010 the International Year of Biodiversity (IYB). Ivo Grigorov, Lise Cronne and Giulia Realdon provide a collection of web resources for teachers and students on the occasion. 
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Exploring out-of-body experiences: interview with Henrik Ehrsson 
   
  
   
                  
	     
          
           
		 
		 We’ve all sometimes felt ‘beside ourselves’, but have you ever felt that you were actually outside yourself – looking at yourself from outside your own body? Marta Paterlini talked to Henrik Ehrsson, a scientist studying this phenomenon. 
		 
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Scientists at play: contraptions for developing science process skills 
   
  
   
                           		   		 In the second of two articles on developing the processes of enquiry, hypothesis and testing, Alfredo Tifi, Natale Natale and Antonietta Lombardi describe how to build and apply some of the low-cost equipment they have developed.      
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 A new tree of life 
   
  
   
                              		   		 At the  European Molecular Biology Laboratory  in Heidelberg, Germany, Peer Bork’s research group has meticulously reconstructed a new tree of life – tracing the course of evolution. Russ Hodge explains.   		     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Natural selection at the molecular level 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					We know that particular genetic sequences can help us to survive in our environment – this is the basis of evolution. But demonstrating which genetic sequences are beneficial and how they help us to survive is not easy – especially in wild populations. Jarek Bryk describes some relevant recent research. 
			 
		    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Forensic entomology: activities for schools 
   
  
   
                            		   		 Many of you were fascinated (and disgusted!) by the  article about forensic entomology  in our last issue. Paula Starbäck, the reviewer, suggested that it would be a fascinating activity for students, if only someone could find a way to avoid the terrible smell. We challenged you to come up with a solution – and Martin Hall      
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Breeding dragons: investigating Mendelian inheritance 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Mendelian inheritance can be a tricky topic to teach, but Pat Tellinghuisen, Jennifer Sexton and Rachael Shevin’s memorable dragon-breeding game makes it easier to understand and remember. 
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 How do muscles produce work? Using optical tweezers to study molecular machines 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Alexandre Lewalle from  King’s College, London , UK, pushes back the frontiers of our knowledge of motors – at the molecular level. 
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Single molecules under the microscope 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Would it not be fascinating to observe and manipulate individual molecules? Patrick Theer and Marlene Rau from the European Molecular Biology Laboratory explain how, with an atomic force microscope, you can do just this. You could even build your own. 
				
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Answers to comprehension questions 
   
  
   
                  For the questions, see  Shipwreck: science to the rescue!   
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Deadly proteins: prions 
   
  
   
                  
	     
          
		 
		 Since the epidemic of ‘mad cow disease’ in the 1980s and 90s, and the emergence of its human equivalent, variant Creutzfeld-Jacob disease, there has been a great deal of research into prions, the causative agents. Mico Tatalovic reviews the current state of knowledge. 
		 
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Small molecules make scents 
   
  
   
                                       		  		  		 Angelika Börsch-Haubold demonstrates the olfactory delights of organic chemistry.  		          	     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Launching ideas 
   
  
   
                                        		  		 Isabel Plantier teaches biology and geology to 15-year-old students in Portugal. She has been teaching for 25 years and tells Sai Pathmanathan that time really does fly when you’re having fun. 		          	     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Nanotechnology in school 
   
  
   
                  
       
          
		 
		 
		 Matthias Mallmann from NanoBioNet eV explains what nanotechnology really is, and offers two nano-experiments for the classroom. 
		 
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Environmental chemistry: water testing as part of collaborative project work 
   
  
   
                      		   		 Wetlands are key habitats for a vast range of wildlife. Richard Harwood and Chris Starr, from  Aiglon College , Switzerland, describe a school project to measure water quality in a local wetlands region.     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 What is chemiluminescence? 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Glowing jellyfish, flickering fireflies, fun glow sticks; Emma Welsh introduces the beautiful and mysterious world of chemiluminescence. 
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
 
 
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 

   Readers' feedback 

    
    
  
  
       
       
     
             
   
                1 week 6 days ago
   
  
   
                 Den Klimawandel im Klassenzimmer simulieren 
   
  
   
                Den Klimawandel im Klassenzimmer simulieren
   
 
             
   
                1 week 6 days ago
   
  
   
                 Climate change modelling 
   
  
   
                Climate change modelling in the classroom
   
 
             
   
                3 weeks 15 hours ago
   
  
   
                 Related teaching activity: solar cells in drinking straws 
   
  
   
                Looking to the heavens: climate change experiments
   
 
       
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 

   Forum 

    
    
  
  
       
       
     
             
   
                 how to attract a budget Abercrombie & fitch Canada Goose wintertime coats 
   
  
   
                26 min 1 sec ago
   
 
             
   
                 how to attract a budget Abercrombie & fitch Canada Goose wintertime coats 
   
  
   
                28 min 19 sec ago
   
 
             
   
                 Why can't we remember things as a baby 
   
  
   
                12 weeks 2 days ago
   
 
             
   
                 How did dinosaurs communicate? 
   
  
   
                17 weeks 6 days ago
   
 
       
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 


   
    
 
 

                         
         
             

   Photo of the day 

    
 
  
From:  The drama of science 
  
 
 

   Searching for primary-school teachers 

    
	Seeking European primary-school teachers! If you would like to help us to decide which articles to publish, see  here  for more information and then  email us . If you have colleagues who may be interested, please let them know. 
 
 
 

   Science in the media 

    
	Mapping the deadly mosquito 
	The European Space Agency (ESA) is helping to take the bite out of mosquitoes and their deadly diseases by tracking their distribution and habitat via observation satellites, satnav, and mobile communications. See  the ESA website . 
 
	When particles collide 
	CERN Director General Rolf-Dieter Heuer describes how the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the world's largest particle accelerator, is helping to bring science back to the masses. See the  interview . 
 
	Cat litter to become an edible product? 
	The structure of different sepiolites has been analysed at ESRF, using X-ray and electron diffraction. Used in cat litter, sepiolites could also bind food products and stabilise drugs. See the  press release . 
 
 
 

   Important dates 

    
	  The next issue of Science in School, Issue 21, will be published in December. 
	 
	The next deadlines for submitting articles are: 
 
	 
		10 October 2011 (Issue 22) 
	 
		10 January 2012 (Issue 23) 
 
 
 
         
          
   
  
 

     
    
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 



     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note