Putting the fizz into physics! | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 2 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Is climate change all gloom and doom? Introducing stabilisation wedges  
  Sustainable Energy – without the hot air  
  More than meets the eye: the electromagnetic spectrum  
  Google, guts and gravity  
  Hunting for asteroids  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 2  » Putting the fizz into physics! 			             Putting the fizz into physics!                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by sis on 28 July 2006 

 



  
   
           Lucy Attwood from  Oxford Danfysik , UK, explains the mysterious appeal of champagne.       	             		© iStockphoto.com / Ralf Hetter		   		 Champagne, champagne, champagne. It has launched a thousand ships, toasted countless exam results, witnessed millions of proposals and, I’m pretty sure, initiated an innumerable number of headaches!  		  People have celebrated with champagne (the sparkling wine accidentally discovered in the Champagne region of France) since the 17th century. Practically everybody I know loves it because of its fabulous fizz, and most associate the beverage’s quality with the size and quantity of its characteristic bubbles.      	   So where do the bubbles come from?  	   During the fermentation process of wine manufacture, yeast reacts with grape sugar to produce alcohol and carbon dioxide gas. In standard wine production, the gas is released, but when producing sparkling wine, the gas is instead trapped under pressure inside the bottle. There it remains, dissolved in the liquid, until a suitably special occasion dictates that the cork should be ceremoniously popped.  	   Once open, the higher concentration of carbon dioxide in the wine than in the atmosphere results in an imbalance, which reaches equilibrium through the formation of bubbles; bubbles that escape from the liquid until balance is restored. Bubbles, bubbles, bubbles – adding sparkle for the eye and tingle for the tongue.  	   The bubbles don’t just form anywhere, however; they are triggered at points in the glass or bottle where there is a microscopic defect such as a scratch or dust particle. The irregularity, known as a nucleation point, prompts carbon dioxide molecules to come out of solution and create a bubble. The bubble expands as more molecules diffuse into it from the surrounding liquid, which has a much higher concentration of carbon dioxide.  	   Once the bubble is big enough to have acquired sufficient buoyancy, it detaches from the nucleation point and rises to the surface. Alone again, the irregularity grabs more carbon dioxide molecules from the liquid and another bubble is formed, and another, and so on until you have a steady stream of bubbles rising vertically through your drink.  	   So next time you’re at a party and somebody hands you a rather expensive-looking flute of fizzy champagne, remember… it’s probably just a dirty glass!  	   Try it at home  	   You can easily demonstrate the formation of bubbles at nucleation sites using salt. The surface of a salt grain is covered with microscopic flaws, which make perfect gathering places for carbon dioxide molecules. Dropping a little salt into a glass of champagne creates hundreds of new nucleation sites, resulting in an impressive display of sparkle.  	   Important warning: using champagne for this experiment is extremely dangerous and could result in severe damage to the bank balance. Under no circumstances should champagne be used for this demonstration; instead, use beer or another carbonated beverage!  	                          

   
     
              Back in the staffroom    Physics    Issue 2    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 6431 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

   Comments   
 

   
  
      Sparkling champagne  
    
        Mon, 2010-09-20 22:18 — Antonis
  
  
  
     
       Read also the interesting relative article "On the Losses of Dissolved CO2 during Champagne Serving" 
Journal of Agricultural & Food Chemistry, 2010, 58, pp 8768–8775. DOI: 10.1021/jf101239w 
illustrating the effect of pouring the champagne in different ways and the temperature it is served. 
     

   

          Login  or  register  to post comments 
  
   
  
 

   
  
      Correction  
    
        Fri, 2007-05-04 00:19 — chps
  
  
  
     
       the sparkling wine (Champagne)gets the majority gas inside the bottle. After the wine get sterilised whit a filter. With the aplication of new yeast and nutrients to promote the new fermentation, in a bottle resistent to 12 bar (aprox.) and the wine produced gas to aprox. 6 bar. This  It gets a stage by a few mounths to some years and then, it is made the DEGORGEMENT (remove particules of fermentation, of the bottle)and after it can be drinked after 2 mounths 
     

   

          Login  or  register  to post comments 
  
   
             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note