The chocolate challenge | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 2 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Using news in the science classroom  
  Fishing for genes: DNA microarrays in the classroom  
  Microwave experiments at school  
  Physics: a black box?  
  What happens next? A teaching strategy to get students of all ages talking  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 2  » The chocolate challenge 			             The chocolate challenge                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by sis on 26 July 2006 

 



  
   
    	            		   		 John Schollar from the  National Centre for Biotechnology Education  at the University of Reading, UK, finds an excuse for eating one of his favourite foods - chocolate. 		     	   Every country in Europe seems to have its own favourite chocolate, and the characteristics of the best-selling brands vary greatly. Thus, milk chocolate with a caramel note dominates the English market while the French prefer darker chocolate with a greater content of cocoa solids. How can different brands of chocolate be objectively compared, and how can quantitative data be obtained from such comparisons? Here are some simple yet effective comparative procedures that are widely used in the food industry. Typically, they are used for quality control, to assess changes in the product (for example, as a result of changes in raw materials or production methods), to monitor shelf life and to assist in the development of new products. The methods yield data suitable for statistical analysis and can be used for chocolate or for other food products such as fruit juice or biscuits.  	   Preparing the chocolate  	    		    		 For this exercise, you will need a minimum of three different products. The maximum number of brands you can compare will be determined largely by the time you have available, but in practice it is difficult to compare more than six products. We usually find that four different types of chocolate, carefully selected to give a range of characteristics, are ideal for a classroom activity.  		   	          	 		 To avoid bias, the chocolate should be presented to the students without identifying the brand. Identify each of the products with a three-digit code picked at random so that there is no number bias.  		 Manufacturers’ names are often moulded into chocolate bars, so you may wish to remove the name to preserve the anonymity of each type of chocolate.  This can be done in two ways. We have a laboratory heating block set to 40 °C, which we cover with a clean sheet of aluminium foil. We place the each chocolate bar face down on the foil for a few seconds until the manufacturer’s name has been melted away. If you do not have a heating block, remove the name with a spoon or knife that has been warmed in boiling water; this takes a little time, but it is effective as most chocolate melts at about 37 °C. Unfortunately the shapes of chocolate bars often provide a clue about the identity of the brand, so removing the name may not be a fool-proof means of ensuring that the tasters are not biased.  		  Once the names have been removed, cut chocolate into pieces that are suitable for tasting - we usually provide students with pieces about 10 mm square.  		  For each working group, put samples of each type of chocolate into separate clean plastic bags, labelled with the appropriate identification code. Provide one sample for each student (we usually ask students to work in groups of four).  		 Materials and equipment needed by each person  		            		   		    		     Three or four different brands of chocolate, cut into small squares about 10 mm x 10 mm (one sample of each type)  		      A clean paper plate on which to place the chocolate samples  		      A glass of water for cleaning the palate after tasting each sample  		      Photocopied sheets ( here ) on which to record the results  		      A ruler marked in millimetres  		      Coloured pencils (a different colour for each type of chocolate)  	       		       				 Procedure  				  				   Taste each chocolate sample in turn, and as you do so, use the sensory testing chart to record the characteristics of each brand of chocolate. Use a different coloured pencil for each chocolate sample. Take a sip of water after tasting each sample to refresh your palate.  				    Measure the distances between the beginning of each line and the coloured marks you have made on the lines. Convert the positions marked for each characteristic for each chocolate sample into percentage values, and record these values in the personal summary table. Note that each line on the first chart is 100 mm long, so that the positions marked on the line are easily converted into percentages.  				   Collate the results for your group in the group summary table. Note that it may be easier if you divide the work and one person collects all the data for one chocolate type.  				   Calculate the group mean for each characteristic. If desired, you may also collect the data for the entire class.  				   In the chart below, plot a sensory profile (zero at the centre, 100% at the extremity) for each chocolate brand. Each brand of chocolate will have a sensory profile represented by a different shape. If you use coloured pencils for this, all the data can be shown on one chart.  				   If time allows, the data for the entire class can be collated and compared. Your personal perception of each chocolate’s characteristics can be compared with group or class results.  				   Finally, discover the identity of each of the different brands of chocolate you have tasted. Look at the ingredients such as milk and cocoa solids listed on the wrappers for each of the chocolate samples. Try to relate the results you have obtained to information on chocolate wrapper and any advertising claims made for each brand.  	    				 Safety  				  		    		 For reasons of hygiene, wear disposable plastic gloves while you are preparing the chocolate. The samples must be prepared in a kitchen or room suitable for food preparation, not a laboratory. The chocolate should not be tasted in a laboratory.  		 IMPORTANT! Teachers should be aware that some students may have food allergies (e.g., to nuts) and will therefore be unable to carry out this work.    		     		 Preparation and timing  		 The activity takes about 60 minutes. The chocolate samples should be prepared in advance.  		 Resources  		 Further information about chocolate manufacture, including practical investigations suitable for the school laboratory are given in:  	    Beckett ST (2004) The Science of Chocolate. London, UK: Royal Society of Chemistry  		  Additional information is provided in Chapter 12 of:  	    McGee H (2004) McGee on Food and Cooking: an Encyclopedia of Kitchen Science, History and Culture. London, UK: Hodder and Stoughton Ltd   		  A useful compendium of chocolate facts and figures is provided in:  	    Ayral D (2001) A Passion for Chocolate. London, UK: Cassell & Co                                                          

   
     
              Teaching activities    Science    Issue 2    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 13363 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note