Guidelines for reviewing books and other resources | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   
 



 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
   Home   » Guidelines for reviewing books and other resources 
                     Guidelines for reviewing books and other resources           
          
                    
            

 



            Last updated Fri, 2010-07-09 18:33 — sis
      
   
           One goal of Science in School  is to draw attention to books or other resources that would be useful and interesting to science teachers. These may be popular science books,  films, websites or other resources. The guidelines below refer to books, but the principles hold for almost any type of resource.  
       The main purpose of a book review is to explain the scope of the book to the reader, and to discuss how well it achieves this purpose. You should also describe the quality of its contents, if possible by comparing it to similar works on the same topic that you might know of.  
       As the readers of Science in School  are involved in science education, be sure to consider how the book could be useful for science teachers. Would it give teachers or their students a useful overview of the latest scientific developments? Is it written at the right level for the audience? For which subjects and topics would it be appropriate? Which age groups of students would benefit? Is there a clear link to parts of your curriculum? 
       Generally, reviews should be between 200 and 700 words. If you include an introduction to the scientific field or give an overview existing literature in the field to highlight the contribution of this book, you may need to write a little more.  
       If you find the language hard to understand, please draw attention to this. Remember that the journal is intended for a European-wide audience, many of whom will not be native English speakers. If you have difficulties understanding the book, it is likely that others will, too.  
       If you feel the book would not be useful to science teachers, please  let us know . 
       Finally, do not forget to send the completed  copyright form  with your review. 
       Suggesting further reviews 
     We welcome recommendations from our readers. Please send suggestions for books, films, websites and other resources to  editor@scienceinschool.org . If you would be interested in reviewing the resource yourself, please say so.    

   
     
         

             12873 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

            
                        
          
                       Return to top of page  
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note