Awards, rewards – and onwards! | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 5 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Science teachers take to the stage  
  Young minds in science: the European Union Contest for Young Scientists 2010  
  Young scientists at the cutting edge: EIROforum prize winners  
  Science on Stage: searching for the best teachers in Europe  
  Teachers fly high at the European Space Agency  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                               
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 5  » Awards, rewards – and onwards! 			             Awards, rewards – and onwards!                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by sis on 12 June 2007 

 



  
   
    	                      		The science teaching fair  		Image courtesy of ILL		  		  		 At Science on Stage 2, the European Science Teaching Awards 2007 were presented for the 12 best projects. Eleanor Hayes, editor of  Science in School , describes how the jury made their difficult decisions.  		          	     	   The unbelievable noise of 500 science teachers demonstrating their experiments, their materials and their ideas in the science teaching fair: the most intriguing, explosive and multilingual marketplace you’ve ever seen! The nose-tingling smell of innumerable chemical reactions. And the unforgettable sound of one Romanian delegate singing a song composed specially for the occasion…. It could only be Science on Stage!  	   At the Science on Stage 2 festival in Grenoble, France, the eight-person jury spent a week prowling around the fair: the heart of the event. We had €18 000 worth of European Science Teaching Awards to allocate: four cash prizes and eight organisational prizes (including sponsored visits to research institutes, laboratory equipment and books). Twelve prizes, 30 countries and 500 delegates – selected by their countries to represent the very best in European science education. How could we possibly choose?  	   Our key criteria were innovation, relevance in school and reproducibility: was it new, could other teachers copy it, and did it matter? Sounds easy, but the competition was impressive. So much inspiration, such professional student-made equipment – and above all, such enthusiasm for science and education!  	   Our search for innovative teaching led us to Per Kornhall, from Sweden, with his ambitious project to ‘Teach Science in a Different Way’ (EPS Prize). As tired of basic physics as his students were, he had jumped straight in with molecular orbitals, relativity, stereochemistry, the Big Bang and quantum theory. The result? Students’ attendance and their respect for science rose noticeably.  	                           The very small and the very large can be particularly challenging to teach, especially without expensive equipment. We were therefore happy to be pounced on by Zoltán Köllö, from Hungary, who had created a number of clear and simple models, including a demonstration of nuclear fusion and the Coulomb barrier using a couple of drops of water! Impressed by his ideas and enthusiasm, we awarded him the fourth-place cash prize (€1000). Also a fan of the simple simulation, Panayiota Neophytou from Cyprus (EMBL Prize) and her students created an innovative 3D model of the animal cell, using cheap and readily available materials. What an effortless and fun way to learn difficult words like ‘mitochondria’.                              Zoltán Köllö from Hungary            Image courtesy of ILL                      	                                          Ida Regl from Austria            Image courtesy of ILL               Moving from the minute to the immense, Ida Regl, from Austria, encouraged her primary-school students to pose questions about the Sun and then design and perform their own experiments to answer them. And what questions! The ambitious ‘Sunny Side Up’ project covered not only light refraction, colours, heat and gravity, but also Sun flares, Sun granulation, sunspots and photovoltaics. Ida received a well-earned third-place cash prize (€2000).                      	                           The Sun played a vital role too in Mario Mitov’s Bulgarian demonstration of an ecological energy system. Energy from a solar panel or wind turbine was used to electrolyse water, and the resultant hydrogen and oxygen produced electricity in a reversible fuel cell. Designed by students, the modular apparatus will be commercialised to provide Bulgarian teachers with inexpensive and flexible equipment – and won Mario the second-place cash prize (€3000).                              Mario Mitov from Bulgaria            Image courtesy of ILL                      	                                          Angela Köhler from Germany            Image courtesy of ILL               In our hunt for interdisciplinary work, we were bowled over by Angela Köhler and her ‘Chemistry Under the Pyramids’ project (ESRF Prize), in which she and her students rediscovered chemistry used by the ancient Egyptians. On the German stand, Angela showed us how to mummify an apple, synthesise Egyptian Blue pigment, and recreate ancient Egyptian cosmetic recipes – one of the jurors claimed the marigold (Calendula) salve was very effective.                      	   Herbs were particularly important in Nils Bernt Andersen’s ‘Juicy Greens’ student enterprise (EFDA Prize). Algal waste from a local factory– together with suitable school refuse – was used to investigate the most effective way to make compost. That done, the students grew organic herbs and vegetables – and sold them to local restaurants from their green-painted bicycle.  	                           Continuing the theme of a healthy diet, we came across Gianluca Farusi from Italy. His ‘Looking for Antioxidant Food’ project (ILL Prize) encouraged students to eat more healthily by introducing them to the many diseases associated with free radicals and getting them to compare the antioxidant activity of different foods. The conclusion? Drink more espresso!                              Gianluca Farusi from Italy            Image courtesy of ILL                      	   One criterion for the jury was whether the project could be easily used in other European schools. And what could be more useful than the books, DVDs and CD-ROMs developed by Patric Pacella from Luxembourg (CERN Prize)? Dissatisfied with the available textbooks, he has created a resource for all chemistry teachers – and has filmed just about every chemical reaction you would want to do at school, plus plenty that you could never do yourself because they are too expensive or dangerous.  	                                          Vincent Devaux, Michel Merlange and Jean-Paul Chamozzi from France            Image courtesy of ILL               Not only fascinating and instructive but also beautiful: Vincent Devaux, Michel Merlange, Jean-Paul Chamozzi and their French students (ESA Prize) designed underwater bubble machines. The students developed several different submarines powered by effervescent tablets, which used Archimedes’ principle and cleverly shaped components to roll, bob or rotate through a tank of water. These were accompanied by bilingual films telling the story of the submarine captain’s daring manoeuvres.                      	                           Storytelling was also central to Claudia Bezzina’s Maltese project (ESO Prize), which linked historical stories with simple scientific experiments, capturing the imagination of students and jury alike. Her student booklet will be published soon.                              Claudia Bezzina and her colleague from Malta            Image courtesy of ILL                      	                                          Finn Skaarup Jensen from Denmark            Image courtesy of ILL               Finally, our top prize of €4000 went to Finn Skaarup Jensen from Denmark for ‘Robots in Real Life’. His build-it-yourself robot kits not only look appealing, but demonstrate mechanics, hydraulics and electronics to students aged 13 and upwards.               During the week, we heard with delight about the continuing work of the CERN prize-winners from Science on Stage 1. After winning their prize for using lichens to measure water quality, Maria das Mercês Silva e Sousa and Maria Joao Carvalho not only convinced two universities and a factory to join their school project but also succeeded in changing Portuguese national policy on water quality! We look forward to hearing from our latest batch of prize-winners: how have you developed your ideas and did the award help?                      	   Although the noise, smell and music may fade, the longer-lasting benefits of Science on Stage will remain: the international collaborations and friendships that were forged, the ideas that were shared and developed, and the motivation of all participants. Congratulations to our 12 prize-winners, but also to everyone who brought and shared such impressive projects and made science so much fun!  	   Resources  	   More information about the festival and the awards is available on the  Science on Stage website .  	   Many of the projects demonstrated at Science on Stage 2 will be published in forthcoming issues of  Science in School  – watch this space!  	                                             

   
     
              Event reports    Education    Science    Issue 5    English    EIROforum    Science on Stage       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 6192 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note