Climate change modelling in the classroom | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 9 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       The ‘Radon school survey’: measuring radioactivity at home  
  Warrior against pseudoscience: Daniella Muallem  
  Plastics in cars: polymerisation and recycling  
  Is climate change all gloom and doom? Introducing stabilisation wedges  
  Translations - from today’s science to tomorrow’s medicine in Berlin-Buch  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 9  » Climate change modelling in the classroom 			             Climate change modelling in the classroom                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by sis on 02 October 2008 

 



  
   
    
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				Image courtesy of C. Niva  
			 
				 
					Why not get your students to make their own predictions of climate change – with the help of Dudley Shallcross and Tim Harrison from  Bristol University , UK? 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	Climate change and global warming are ‘hot’ topics and deserve an important place in the school science curriculum. But how do we predict how our climate is going to change? It seems timely to introduce students to simple climate modelling. In this article, we demonstrate that students can use a straightforward spreadsheet to investigate the major factors that affect Earth’s climate. 
 
	A first attempt to model the climate 
 
	The simplest model of the climate is one in which incoming solar energy is equal to outgoing terrestrial energy emitted from the planet, i.e. an ‘energy in equals energy out’ model. In this article, the term ‘energy’ really means energy flux, i.e. energy per second. We know from measurements that the energy from the Sun reaching the top of the atmosphere (per second), termed the solar constant S, is 1370 Wm -2 . 
 
	We start by calculating the average surface temperature of Earth, T E . If we take the radius of a perfectly spherical Earth to be R E , in this very simple model we can see that Earth absorbs solar radiation over an area πR E  2  (i.e. a flat disc of atmosphere) but emits energy from an area 4πR E  2  (i.e. from the entire surface). 
 
	(a) Energy in = energy out 
 
	and using the Stefan-Boltzmann Law (see  box ) 
 
	(b) Energy per unit area per unit time x total area (disc)  = energy per unit area per unit time x total area (sphere)  
 
	(c) 1370 x πR E  2  = ?T E  4  x 4πR E  2  
 
	Rearranging the equations gives: 
 
	 
		?T E  4  = 1370 = S/4 
		            4 
	 
		T E  4  =          1370        
		        (4 x 5.67 x 10 -8 ) 
	 
		T E  = 279 K (6 °C) 
 
 
	where ? is the Stefan-Boltzmann constant (5.67 x 10 -8  Wm -2 K -4 ). 
 
	At first glance, this looks like a sensible figure for such a crude model, although of course the actual average surface temperature of Earth is known to be 16 °C. (There are several ways to work it out, such as by splitting Earth into latitude bands, working out the average temperature per band and summing and averaging all of these.) The problem with this very simple model, though, is that some solar energy is not absorbed by Earth, but is instead reflected back out to space by clouds and ice. 
 
	Approximately 24% of the incoming energy is reflected by clouds and another 6% is reflected by the surface, e.g. by ice. This gives a total reflectivity of Earth – known as the albedo (A) – of 30% or 0.3. Therefore, the left-hand side of equation (c) must now be re-written as 0.7 x 1370 x πR E  2  and the calculation of T E  becomes: 
 
	 
		T E  4  =     1370 x 0.7    
		        (4 x 5.67 x 10 -8 ) 
	 
		T E  = 255 K (-18 °C) 
 
 
	This value is obviously far too low, and leads naturally to the question: why is Earth so warm? In order to answer this question we need a slightly more complex model. 
 
	 
		  Essential background physics 
	 
		Black body radiation and the Stefan-Boltzmann Law 
	 
		All bodies radiate energy as electromagnetic radiation. A black body absorbs all radiation falling on it. It emits radiation as a function of its surface temperature. 
		The Stefan-Boltzmann Law describes the total energy, I, emitted by a black body at any temperature, T, by: 
	 
		 
			I(T) = ?T4                                                         (Equation 1) 
	 
	 
		where: 
	 
		 
			I is the energy per unit area emitted per second (Wm -2 ) 
		 
			T is the absolute temperature (K) 
		 
			? is the Stefan-Boltzmann constant (5.67 x 10 -8  Wm -2 K -4 ). 
	 
 
 
	The one-layer atmosphere model of Earth 
 
	If we assume that the atmosphere is made up of a single layer of miscible gases, we can create a more accurate model that students can use with a spreadsheet. In this model, allowances are made for absorption by the atmosphere of the incoming visible light from the Sun and absorption of the outgoing infra-red light emitted from Earth. 
 
	The figure below summarises the elements of the model. F S  is the solar constant divided by 4 (S/4), which arises from the difference between incoming energy spread over a disc, πr 2 , and outgoing energy radiated from the surface of a sphere, 4πr 2  (the assumption made in the first model). The incoming energy from the Sun is then F S (1-A), where A is the albedo – the portion reflected back to space. This incoming energy is in the UV and visible regions. ? VIS  is the proportion of this incoming energy that is not absorbed by the atmosphere: if the atmosphere absorbs it all, ? VIS  is zero; if the atmosphere absorbs none of it, ? VIS  is one. Hence the energy reaching the surface of the planet is F S (1-A) x ? VIS . 
 
	Earth will behave similarly to a black body and will emit the energy denoted as F g  from its surface. This terrestrial radiation is centred in the infra-red region of the spectrum. Certain gases in the atmosphere absorb the infra-red energy (greenhouse gases). Similar to ? VIS , ? IR  is the proportion of infra-red energy not absorbed by these gases in the atmosphere, and so the outgoing energy is F g  x ? IR . 
 
	Assuming that the energy from the atmosphere is denoted as F a  and that energy in and out at the surface of Earth and the top of the atmosphere are both balanced, then: 
 
	at the surface of Earth: 
 
	 
		F S (1-A) x ? VIS  + F a  = F g                                                          (Equation 2) 
 
 
	and at the top of the atmosphere: 
 
	 
		F g  x ? IR  + F a  = F S (1-A)                                              (Equation 3) 
 
 
	Combining Equations 2 and 3 gives: 
 
	 
		F g  = F S (1-A)(1 + ? VIS ) 
		            (1 + ? IR ) 
 
 
	Finally, 
 
	 
		F g  = ?T E  4  = F S (1-A)(1 + ? VIS ) 
		                      (1 + t IR ) 
	 
		T E  = [ F S (1-A)(1 + ? VIS ) ] 0.25  
		       [       ?(1 + ? IR )     ]                                          (Equation 4) 
 
 
	If we take the following values: 
 
	 
		F S  = 1370/4 = 342.5 Wm -2  (solar constant divided by 4) 
	 
		A = 0.3 
	 
		? VIS  = 0.8 
	 
		? IR  = 0.1 
 
 
	Equation 4 gives us: 
 
	 
		T E  = 288.5 K (15.5 °C), 
 
 
	which is a close approximation to the current average surface temperature of Earth. 
 
	 
	Image courtesy of Nicola Graf 
 
	It is Equation 4 that can be put into a programme such as Microsoft Excel so that students can see the changes in global temperature when the equation parameters are changed. This has been done and an interactive version can be used online or downloaded from the Bristol University website  w1  . 
 
	Table 1 shows examples of the output if the variables A, ? VIS  and ? IR  are altered. In Example 1 we assume that the atmosphere does not absorb any of the incoming or outgoing energy fluxes (i.e. both ? VIS  and ? IR  are equal to 1.0) and the albedo is 0.3, giving a temperature of 255 K. In Example 2, we assume that there are no clouds or ice (i.e. A = 0.0), which raises the temperature of Earth to 279 K, showing the importance of the albedo. In Example 3, there are also no clouds or ice (A = 0.0) but the atmosphere now absorbs all the outgoing infra-red radiation (i.e. ? IR  = 0.0) and Earth warms to 331 K. If we now reintroduce clouds and ice in Example 4 (A = 0.3), the temperature drops to 303 K. 
 
	 
 
	Possible questions 
 
	Typical questions that could be asked, and which would require students to use this model, are: 
 
	 
		Which of the variables has the greatest effect on average global temperature? 
	 
	 
		If the average distance from Earth to the Sun was increased by 1% of the current value, the solar constant would be reduced by a factor of 1.0201, i.e. it would become 1343 Wm -2 . What would the temperature be? Assume an albedo of 0.3, ? IR  of 0.3 and ? VIS  of 0.6. 
 
 
	(The solar constant will scale with distance squared, so moving Earth 10% closer to the Sun will mean S = 1370/(0.9) 2  = 1691 Wm -2  and moving Earth 1% further away will mean S = 1370/(1.01) 2  = 1343 Wm -2 ) 
 
	Of course, far more challenging questions could be asked. 
 
	 
		If the sand in the Sahara desert could be made into a glass mirror (sand can be melted into glass), 
 
 
	 
		How big would the mirror have to be in order to cool the planet by 1 °C? 
	 
		What fraction of the Sahara desert would that be? 
 
 
	A more sophisticated model 
 
	How does the simple model compare with more sophisticated models such as the Hadley Centre climate model used by the UK’s Meteorological Office (see images  below )? In fact, the two models are very similar, except that the Hadley Centre model does not consider the atmosphere as one layer, but splits it into a number of boxes based on altitude, latitude and longitude. For each box, the model directly calculates the amount of incoming UV/visible radiation transmitted and scattered within that box, and the amount of outgoing infra-red radiation transmitted by that box, based on the concentrations of key greenhouse gases and the surface area of cloud and ice. The most sophisticated versions of the Hadley Centre model also consider the heat flux into and out of the ocean and the uptake of CO 2  by vegetation. But if you understand the principles of the simple model, you are well on your way to understanding the more complicated real climate models. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				     
				Global warming projections. Climate model predictions for global warming relative to average global temperature in 2000. The model data used was taken from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Data Distribution Centre. Click to enlarge image 
				Image courtesy of Robert A. Rohde; image source: Wikimedia Commons 
			 
				 
					  
			 
			 
				   
				Global warming predictions: 2070-2100 prediction vs. 1960-1990 average. A map of predicted global warming at the end of the 21st century. This model has an average warming of 3.0°C and uses the Hadley Centre HadCM3 climate model. Click to enlarge image 
				Image courtesy of Robert A. Rohde; image source: Wikimedia Commons 
		 
	 
 
 
	Taking part in a real climate simulation 
 
	Climateprediction.net  w2   is the largest experiment to try and produce a forecast of the climate for the 21st century. It does this by recruiting help from people around the world who can offer time on their computers – such as when the computers are switched on, but are not being used to their full capacity. The full climate model has many parameters that can be adjusted; to explore all of these parameters, a phenomenal number of simulations must be performed. Even with the computer resources available to the climateprediction.net team, such an ensemble of simulations would take a very long time. The idea behind climateprediction.net is that anyone can download a version of the model that will explore one of these particular parameters (preset). The model will take about three months to run in the background while you work, without compromising the speed of the computer. 
 
	Calculations are performed in three parts. The first part runs calculations using data from the years 1850 to 1900, checking the resulting predictions against temperature records: this is known as the calibration run. The second part runs a simulation from 1901 to the present day. The third stage then runs a simulation of the future climate (2000-2100) with one parameter changed, for example the sensitivity of climate to uncertainties in the sulphur cycle. Once the calculations are complete, the data is automatically uploaded to the UK’s Meteorology Office the next time that the computer is online. The interface software provided (free of charge) with the simulation gives the computer user a graph of the changes to the climate, as they are calculated. Temperature variations by season with latitude, longitude and altitude are just some of the variables that can be visualised. Such features would enable a cross-curricular school project linking geography and the physical sciences. 
 
	In the next issue of Science in School, the authors suggest some chemistry experiments relevant to climate change. 
 
	Web references 
 
	  w1 – An interactive version of the simple climate model can be used online or downloaded here:  www.chm.bris.ac.uk/acrg/model/simple_climate_model/prediction_model.html  
	Use the sliders to change the variables. 
 
	  w2 – For more details about the experiment and how to get involved, see  http://climateprediction.net . 
 
	The climateprediction.net website also offers information and resources specifically for schools, available both in English and Spanish:  http://climateprediction.net/schools/resources.php  
 
	Resources 
 
	Harrison T, Shallcross D, Henshaw S (2006) Detecting CO 2  - the hunt for greenhouse-gas emissions. Chemistry Review 15: 27-30 
 
	Pacala S, Socolow R (2004) Stabilisation wedges: solving the climate problem for the next 50 years with current technologies. Science 305: 968-972. doi:  10.1126/science.1100103  
 
	Shallcross D (2006) Dirty Air. Education in Chemistry, 43 (5): 131-135 
 
	Numerous notes for schoolteachers on air pollution, climate change and ozone depletion by the authors can be found here:  www.chemlabs.bristol.ac.uk/outreach/resources/Atmos.html  
 
	For an excellent source of graphics and data relating to climate change, see:  www.grida.no/climate/vital/index.htm  
 
	Data from the Earth System Research Laboratory Global Monitoring Station can be found here:  www.cmdl.noaa.gov  
 
	The website of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, from which the Climate Change 2007 report and other data may be located, is:  www.ipcc.ch  
 Haubold B (2008) Una verdad incómoda. Science in School 9: 72.  www.scienceinschool.org/2008/issue9/inconvenient/spanish  
 
	 
		Review 
	 
		Climate change should certainly be one of the topics of today’s science teaching at all school levels throughout Europe. In particular after Al Gore’s enormous Inconvenient Truth campaign, the topic has gained world-wide recognition. However, useful materials with usable background information for science teachers are not always readily available. This two-part article, however, offers a suitable and easy-to-adapt approach to the rather complicated process of modelling atmospheric developments. 
	 
		Whereas the mathematical model is best suited for use in advanced science courses for students aged 16 and over, the basic phenomena could easily be presented to students at the age of 15 or even younger – even if they are not intending to specialise in science in later school years. The web resources mentioned offer a wide range of approaches and ready-to-use images, applets and graphs, thus providing a very useful resource for any science teacher. 
		Tobias Kirschbaum, Germany 
 
 
 
	Dudley Shallcross is the Professor in Atmospheric Chemistry and Tim Harrison is the School Teacher Fellow at the School of Chemistry at the University of Bristol, UK. The latter is a position for a secondary-school teacher that was created to bridge the gap between secondary schools and universities, and to use the resources of the School of Chemistry to promote chemistry regionally, nationally and internationally. 
 
	For more information about modelling climate change or about the post of school teacher fellow please contact Dudley Shallcross ( d.e.shallcross@bristol.ac.uk ) or Tim Harrison ( t.g.harrison@bristol.ac.uk ). 
 
	Much of this article was originally published in: Shallcross DE, Harrison TG (2007) Climate change made simple. Physics Education 42: 592-597.  It has been reproduced with the kind permission of the Institute of Physics Publishing. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				   
			 
				   
			 
				   
			 
				   
		 
	 
    

   
     
              Teaching activities    Earth science    Interdisciplinary    Mathematics    Physics    Climate change    Issue 9    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 12967 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

   Comments   
 

   
  
      Climate change modelling  
    
        Tue, 2011-11-15 18:39 — Geograph_60
  
  
  
     
       Since five years I use the derivation presented here, in my Geography classes (Grade 12). I really can recommend this approach. Thanks to Dudley Shallcross and Tim Harrison I can extend the lessons with an interactive version of a climate model. Thank you very much. 
 Roger Wernli, 
Switzerland 
     

   

          Login  or  register  to post comments 
  
   
             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note