Design the cover for Science in School! | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 4 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       How to write a good science story: writing competition  
  Fishing for genes: DNA microarrays in the classroom  
  Using music in the science classroom  
  The Bone Trail: generating enthusiasm for earth sciences in the classroom  
  Warrior against pseudoscience: Daniella Muallem  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 4  » Design the cover for Science in School! 			             Design the cover for Science in School!                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by sis on 12 March 2007 

 



  
   
    	     Do you or your students enjoy painting and drawing as well as teaching or learning science? Would you like to see your artwork reproduced 30,000 times and distributed across Europe? The Science in School cover competition gives you and your students the opportunity to do just that. 	                            	     Entries should be colourful, eye-catching and relevant to science teaching. What makes science lessons fascinating or funny? What are the highs and lows of teaching? What best illustrates the daily life of a science teacher? How do your students envisage scientists and their laboratories? What science topics do they find most exciting or enticing? These are just some ideas to get you started.         You may use paints, pencils, crayons, charcoal – even a computer. The choice is yours. But no sculptures or other 3D entries, please!  	   Entry rules  	   Entries are welcome from science teachers and secondary-school students (ages 10-19) from anywhere in Europe and will be judged in the following categories:  	    	     Teachers  	     Students aged 10-14  	     Students aged 15-19.          	   Entries should include the artist’s full name, email address, school and country. Teachers should list the subjects they teach, and students should include their age. All entries must be accompanied by a statement confirming that the artwork is original and your own work. We regret that we cannot respond individually to entrants or return postal entries.  	   To be included in the competition, entries should reach us by 30 June 2007. Electronic entries should be sent to  editor@scienceinschool.org  and must be of high resolution (a minimum of 300 dpi at A4 size or larger), in jpg or tif format. Postal entries (in a hard-backed envelope to prevent damage) may be sent to:  	   Dr Eleanor Hayes  	    Editor of Science in School                      European Molecular Biology Laboratory          Meyerhofstrasse 1          69117 Heidelberg          Germany  	   The winners will be announced in Issue 6 of Science in School, to be published in Autumn 2007. One or more winning entries will be reproduced on the front cover, identified as the artist’s work. We reserve the right to edit the images as appropriate.  	                          

   
     
              Back in the staffroom    Education    Science    Interdisciplinary    Arts    Issue 4    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 4804 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note