Forthcoming events | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   
 



 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
  Home  » Forthcoming events 
                     Forthcoming events           
          
                    
            

 



            Last updated Mon, 2011-11-07 19:28 — sis
      
   
     View past events ( 2006 ,  2007 ,  2008 ,  2009 ,  2010 ,  2011 ) 	  	    
	   
 
 
   
   Events with fixed dates  
 
 Year-round activities   
 
 
   
     18 October – 20 December 2011: Modena, Italy 
      Teacher training workshop: NanoLab 
     NanoLab is a professional development course designed to provide secondary school science teachers with the theoretical and practical tools needed to introduce nanoscience and nanotechnology into the classroom. The course is organised by and will take place at the Physics Department of the University of Modena e Reggio Emilia in Modena, Italy. Five afternoon sessions will take place between October and November, each with a different focus: nanoparticles; nanostructured surfaces and nanobiology; conductive polymers; microscopy at the nanoscale; smart materials. See the workshop website, below, for the dates of the sessions.  
     Each session will consist of a seminar conducted by a scientist working on the focus topic, and a hands-on teacher-led lab introducing simple experiments that are easily replicable in class. A maximum of 30 will be allowed to participate in the labs.  
     The registration deadline is 30th September 2011. The sessions are free of charge. 
     More information:  www.physicscom.unimore.it  Contact: Annamaria Lisotti ( annamaria.lisotti@unimore.it ) 
     November 2011 – February 2012: UK, various locations 
      Workshop: Olympics Physics Competition 
     Teachers are invited to bring a team of six Year 12 students to a SEPnet (South East Physics Network) partner university campus to participate in a full-day challenge exploring the physics in sport. 
     Each site will run a series of science challenges around a particular Olympic sport. Students will have the chance to meet a local athlete in that sport and learn more about the physics involved in it. 
     The events will be held from November 2011 through to February of 2012. Attendance is free of charge and there is no registration deadline. For more information please contact Clare Harvey on the email address below. 
     Contact:  clare.harvey@sepnet.ac.uk  
         9 – 11 November 2011: Hinxton, Cambridge 
      Teacher training workshop: EMBL-EBI, Better Biology with Bioinformatics 
     The European Bioinformatics Institute (EBI), part of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL), trains scientists how to use public databases containing the vast amounts of data generated every day from biological experiments. It also helps teachers and students to gain a better understanding of how bioinformatics can lead to discoveries that impact on our lives. 
     This three-day workshop features interactive talks and activities that will inspire secondary school teachers to bring bioinformatics into the science classroom. For example, participants will compare DNA sequences from two people to see how tiny changes in our genome make us very different from one another. 
     Participants do not need to have any prior knowledge about bioinformatics. The course will be open to 30 participants and will be run in English. The application deadline is 16 September 2011 (12 noon). The course fee of 100 GBP covers accommodation for two nights, meals and course materials (travel expenses are not included). Details on how to apply for one of  six 100 GBP bursaries can be found by following the link below. 
     More information:  www.ebi.ac.uk/training/onsite/111109_ELLS.html  
      Contact: For questions about the course, contact Mary Todd Bergman ( mary@ebi.ac.uk  ; +44 1223 494 665) or Vicky Schneider ( Vicky@ebi.ac.uk ) and for questions about registration contact Alison Barker ( alison@ebi.ac.uk  ; +44 1223 492 650).  
     10-13 November 2011: Luxembourg 
      Science festival: Luxembourg Science Festival 
     The eighth edition of the Luxembourg Science Festival will take place on 10-13 November 2011 in the National Museum of Natural History and the Centre Culturel de Rencontre Abbaye de Neumünster, Luxembourg-Grund. A range of the activities will be suitable for schoolchildren. In honour of UNESCO declaring 2011 to be the International Year of Chemistry, the festival will include chemistry-themed workshops. There will also be workshops focusing on the world of colour, which will cover chemistry, physics and biology. 
     More information:  www.science-festival.lu  
     From 17 November 2011: worldwide (in German) 
School competition: Chemical dreams of the future – 2050  
     What do scientists and engineers dream of? And what is really possible? Many things that sound like dreams have actually long since been investigated in the laboratory. In this competition, we want to introduce some visions and investigate them further. 
     Teams of 3-5 students from Years 7-11 (13- to 18-year-olds) can take part in this competition, which runs in German. In the first round, students can use Internet research to answer eight questions. Teams that correctly answer six or more questions receive a certificate and a small prize. 
     In the second round, teams use household objects to carry out two experiments and then write a report. Winners will receive prizes of books and journal subscriptions. Members of the three best teams will be invited to the ACHEMA in June 2012 to receive their trophy and prize money of 250€ each. 
     The competition is open to teams of students in the 7th – 11th class. Registration – which is free – is open from 1 October and the competition begins on 17 November 2011. 
      More information:  www.dechemax.de/wettbewerb  
      Contact:  dechemax@dechema.de  
       16 November 2011: London, UK 
      Talk: Meet the Ancestors? 
     In 2010, scientists found some intriguing fossilised skeletons in a cave in South Africa. Almost two million years old, they may be the ancestor to the first humans, and shift the location of early human origins from east Africa to South Africa. Join Professors Chris Stringer and Lee Berger in the Attenborough Studio at the Natural History Museum from 14:30 - 15:00 to discuss how the fossils were found and how the remains fit into the story of human evolution. 
     British and South African schools will be watching via a live link and emailing questions in advance.  
     More information:  http://goo.gl/flENL  
      Contact: Grace Kimble  g.kimble@nhm.ac.uk  
     17 – 23 November 2011: Antwerp, Belgium 
      Science festival: Plasmas. Fusion! Energy? 
     Plasmas. Fusion! Energy? is a science show focussing on present and future energy problems, nuclear fusion and plasmas. Held at the University of Antwerp, Belgium, it is targeted at science teachers and their students (aged 17 – 18 years). The show is preceded by a teacher training workshop, which will equip teachers with the expertise they will need to prepare their students for the show. Due to popular demand, the show will run twice, on 17-18 and 22-23 November. 
     Registration is now open and will close once all sessions are fully booked. The working language will be Dutch. The entrance fee for students is 5 Euros; teachers get in free.  
     More information:  www.ua.ac.be/fusieshow  Contact:  els.moons@ua.ac.be  
     28-30 November 2011: Berlin, Germany 
      Workshop:  Implementing and expanding a reference centre 
     Applications are invited for this, one of five European training sessions organised within the framework of the Fibonacci project. The aim is to discuss the building blocks that need to be taken into account when starting or expanding a reference centre to promote inquiry-based science and mathematics education (IBSME) in schools.  
 The target group is mainly science and mathematics educators and teacher trainers and project coordinators. Special attention will be paid to the persons with the capacity to implement and disseminate IBSME either in their own countries or abroad. 
 Participants do not have to be involved in the Fibonacci project. All sessions will be delivered in English. There is no registration fee, but participants will need to cover their own transport and accommodation costs. 
     More information:  www.fibonacci-project.eu  
      Contact: Nese Ersoy ( nese.ersoy@fu-berlin.de ) or Petra Skiebe-Corrette ( skiebe@zedat.fu-berlin.de ) 
     30 November – 3 December 2011: Riga, Latvia 
    Conference: 8th IOSTE Symposium for Central and Eastern Europe 
     The 8th IOSTE (International Organization for Science and Technology Education) Symposium for Central and Eastern Europe will take place at the University of Latvia in Riga, Latvia, between 30 November and 3 December 2011. 
     The symposium is designed to promote the development and dissemination of conceptual research, professional practice and theory relating to science and technology education, primarily in central and Eastern Europe but also worldwide. All specialists working in this field, as well as teachers and researchers involved in science education at all levels, are invited to attend and participate in the symposium. Participants will have the opportunity to share new ideas and to network with colleagues from different countries. 
     The cost for attending the symposium is 80 Euros. The working language is English. The registration deadline is 15 September 2011. 
     More information:  www.ioste.lu.lv  
      Contact:  ioste.latvia2011@gmail.com  or +371 67372575  
     15-18 February 2012: Bayreuth, Germany 
      Workshop:  Deepening the specificities of inquiry in mathematics 
 Applications are invited for this, one of five European training sessions organised within the framework of the Fibonacci project. The seminar will cover manifold aspects of inquiry-based mathematics education (IBME), taking into account the following aims:      
 
   Less knowledge acquisition, more problem-solving instruction 
   Less orientation towards calculation, more focus on comprehension 
   Learning mathematics in context 
   Attention not only to results but also to the learning strategies and learning processes. 
 
 The target group is mainly science and mathematics educators and teacher trainers and project coordinators. Special attention will be paid to the persons with the capacity to implement and disseminate IBME either in their own countries or abroad. 
 Participants do not have to be involved in the Fibonacci project. All sessions will be delivered in English. There is no registration fee, but participants will need to cover their own transport and accommodation costs. 
     More information:  www.fibonacci-project.eu  
      Contact: Dagmar Raab ( dagmar.raab@uni-bayreuth.de ) or  Thomas Stiegler ( thomas.stiegler@uni-bayreuth.de ) 
     21-23 March 2012: Paris, France 
      Workshop:  Deepening the specificities of inquiry in natural sciences 
     Applications are invited for this, one of five European training sessions organised within the framework of the Fibonacci project. The main aim of the seminar will be to better define inquiry-based science teaching by exploring teaching and learning practices, and to disseminate strategies for its implementation and tools for its assessment.  
 The target group is mainly science and mathematics educators and teacher trainers and project coordinators. Special attention will be paid to the persons with the capacity to implement and disseminate inquiry-based science and mathematics education (IBME) either in their own countries or abroad. 
     Participants do not have to be involved in the Fibonacci project. All sessions will be delivered in English. There is no registration fee, but participants will need to cover their own transport and accommodation costs. 
     More information:  www.fibonacci-project.eu  
      Contact: Susana Borda ( suzana.borda@inrp.fr ) 
     22 - 25 April 2012: Vienna, Austria 
      Conference: Geosciences Information for Teachers (GIFT) Symposium 
     The 2012 Geosciences Information for Teachers (GIFT) symposium is part of the 2012 European Geosciences Union General Assembly and will take place on April 23-25, 2012. With the general theme of water, the conference will be dedicated to the study of the planet’s hydrological problems. 
     All aspects of the water cycle will be described and discussed. Talks will focus on global freshwater availability and distribution, overexploitation of water, strategies for sustainable use of water in the future and the threats caused by environmental change. 
     Contributions from attending teachers are welcomed on activities that they may have used in the classroom, either as a poster or oral presentation, even if the subject is not directly related to the theme of the workshop. 
     Before the main programme begins, on the afternoon of April 22 there will be with a guided visit to the Vienna Museum of Natural Sciences, followed by a small reception. 
     Participating teachers will be selected based on their teaching experience and a supporting statement from their school administration. 
     Grants are available to support teachers to participate in GIFT. Selected teachers will receive a travel and hotel stipend and free registration to the meeting. 
     For details on how to apply, see the conference website, below. Applications should be received as soon as possible and in any case no later than November 30th, 2011. 
     More information:  www.egu.eu/media-outreach/gift/home.html 
     Contact: Carlo Laj, Education Officer ( carlo.laj@lsce.ipsl.fr ) 
      
 
           All year: 10 locations around the UK 
            Training courses: Science continuing professional development 
           The national network of Science Learning Centres, set up by the UK Department for Skills and Education and the Wellcome Trust, provides continuing professional education for everyone involved in UK science education, at all levels.  With nine regional centres and a national centre in York, access to innovative and inspiring courses is within reach across the UK. The centres not only deliver hundreds of courses, but also act as a focus for all the science learning activities in their region. 
           More information:  www.sciencelearningcentres.org.uk  
            Contact:  enquiries@national.slcs.ac.uk   
             All year: Elder Museum of Science and Technology, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain 
            Workshops for students 
            The Museo Elder de la Ciencia y la Tecnología offers a variety of workshops for school children of different ages, both at specific dates throughout the year, and after previous booking. Topics include light, electromagnetism, measuring the cosmos, the heart of life, and sun dials, as well as special topics related to temporary exhibitions. In addition, the museum offers specific itineraries for school classes, for example on the Canarian ecosystem, our body, or robots - thinking machines.  
           More information:  www.museoelder.org  
            Contact:  museoelder@museoelder.es   
           All year: over 200 locations around Germany 
            Workshops for students: Lernort Labor, Student Labs 
            The co-ordinating body for labs for school students in Germany, Lernort Labor, invites teachers to take their classes to visit these labs at universities, science institutes, science centres, museums and in industry. The workshops, which run in German, provide hands-on science and can be found all across Germany. 
           More information:  www.lernort-labor.de  
            Contact:  office@lernort-labor.de   
           All year: Glasgow Science Centre, Glasgow, UK 
Free teacher visits 
           Teachers, classroom assistants, nursery teachers and technicians are invited to visit the Glasgow Science Centre free of charge, to explore and investigate what is on offer. 
           More information:  www.glasgowsciencecentre.org 
            /education.aspx  
            Contact: +44 (0)141 420 5010 
           All year: many Scottish venues, UK 
          School visits: BodyWorks 
  Supported by GlaxoSmithKline, the Glasgow Science Centre’s BodyWorks programme brings the fun of the science centre directly to schools and community groups throughout Scotland. The programme offers an array of exciting workshops, live science shows, interactive exhibits and debates. Everything is designed to be hands-on and to complement  Curriculum for Excellence . 
 More information:  http://www.glasgowsciencecentre.org 
  /education.aspx  
  Contact: +44 (0)141 420 5020           
 All year: Pembrokeshire, Wales, UK 
  Field trip: Rockpools  
           The Pembrokeshire Darwin Science Festival invites all primary schools in Pembrokeshire to book a rockpool ramble and identification field trip. The course is aimed at Key Stage 2 pupils (ages 8-11), takes half a day and is led by three qualified marine scientists. Cost: £250 with a bus or £170 without a bus. Maximum 30 children. 
           More information:  www.darwincentre.com  
            Contact: Marten Lewis ( M.B.Lewis@pembrokeshire.ac.uk ) 
           All year: Pembrokeshire, Wales, UK 
            Workshops: Primary school 
           The Pembrokeshire Darwin Science Festival offers a double workshop visit for a maximum of 30 Key Stage 2 pupils (ages 8-11) and costs £200. The group is split into two workshops, which run simultaneously:  
           
             Plankton / microscopy identification workshop 
             Energy workshop using dynamos, solar panels and a steam engine as hands-on props. 
           
           Also available are three 90-minute workshops, each for a maximum of 20 pupils and costing £120: 
           
             Oil-spill workshop for Key Stage 2 pupils (ages 8-11) 
             Climate-change workshop  for Key Stage 2 pupils (ages 8-11) 
             Marine-litter workshop for  Key Stage 1 pupils (ages 4-7). 
           
           More information:  www.darwincentre.com  
            Contact: Marten Lewis ( M.B.Lewis@pembrokeshire.ac.uk ) 
           All year: Paris-Montagne, Paris, France 
            Science Academy 
           During the year, Paris-Montagne runs an outreach programme at a national scale, in Paris and five cities in the south and east of France. The Science Académie programme targets high-school students interested in science but not confident enough to enrol in undergraduate studies due to social and cultural hindrances. The programme offers them the opportunity to discover science through one-week immersion in research laboratories during holidays. After these internships, they are provided with a large choice of     activities (meetings with researchers, conferences, visits to labs and science museums). 
           These regular events contribute to the formation of a young and passionate community, in which high-school students propose and lead many new activities. In 2011, five years since the launch of Paris-Montagne, the total number of participants in the Science Académie reached 1000 across the country. 
           The most dedicated participants in the programme are offered the chance to take part in a summer camp during the Paris-Montagne science festival in July, and also to attend other scientific summer camps in Europe (e.g. the London  International Youth Science Forum  in the UK; the  International Science Summer Camp  in Aalborg, Denmark;  Petnica  in Serbia;  Kut Diak  in Hungary; and  Visnjan  in Croatia). 
 More information:  www.scienceacademie.org  
           All year: Portugal 
          School visits: MIT professors go to Portuguese secondary schools 
           Ciência Viva organises short talks  by  MIT  professors in Portuguese secondary schools, as part of a co-operation between the Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and Portuguese universities in the areas of bioengineering, sustainable energy and transport systems. The students have  direct contact with MIT professors and can discuss their ideas and ask questions about these important engineering areas. 
           Schools are selected based on their motivation for participating in the programme and on the projects they have developed in the areas of science and engineering. 
           More information:  www.cienciaviva.pt/divulgacao/mit  
            Contact:  info@cienciaviva.pt  
           All year: INTECH, Hands-on Interactive Science and Discovery Centre, Winchester, UK 
          Free teacher visits  
           Teachers are invited to visit INTECH, the hands-on interactive science and discovery centre free of charge, or to attend a teacher preview session to discover what is available for school visits and workshops. 
           More information:  www.intech-uk.com  
            Contact: Angela Ryde-Weller ( AngelaRydeWeller@intech-uk.com ) 
           All year: EURAC tower, Bolzano, Italy 
            Science café 
           EURAC, the European Academy Bolzano, is an institute for applied research and further education. Its science café is an evening event series in which scientists and artists meet in an informal atmosphere to engage in scientific dialogue in front of the general public, over a glass of wine, with music and wonderful views of the city of Bolzano. A presenter leads a one-hour-discussion of topical science issues, after which a DJ creates an inviting atmosphere to linger and chat. The discussions (in Italian and German) are recorded and provided online as videos, audio files and photos on the EURAC tower website, where you can also find this year's programme or sign up for the newsletter. 
            Why not plan an evening visit with your class to the science café? 
                     More information:  http://tower.eurac.edu  
        Contact:  tower@eurac.edu  
         All year: Matheon, Berlin, Germany 
          Maths activities and workshops for schools 
         The DFG Research Center Matheon offers a range of activities to show that maths can be vivid, up-to-date, and fun. 
         Rent the Center: on request, Matheon researchers come to your school to give a lesson on their research topics, presented in a way appropriate to the students' age. The idea is to demonstrate that not all maths problems have already been solved or are to be found in school books, but that maths is a vivid and creative science. 
         Matheredaktion: five times a year, editors of school newspapers are invited to the Matheon centre to find out about research there and to write about it. In small discussion groups, mathematicians explain current projects in an intelligible way, while answering the  young and curious reporters' questions. 
         Mathinside - Urania: under the slogan 'Maths is everywhere', Matheon researchers give a lecture series in Berlin, primarily addressed at  students in grades 10-13 (ages 16 and above) but open to everybody. Topics include the use of maths in mobile phones, cars, medical equipment, public transport and the stock exchange.         
         The activities are run in German, but other languages may be possible on request. 
          More information:  www.matheon.de  
        Contact: Dr Alina Shmakova ( shmakova@matheon.de ) or Dr Falk Ebert ( ebert@matheon.de ) 
         All year: Institute for Mathematics, Humboldt-University Berlin, Germany 
        Lectures: maths didactics 
         The Institute for Mathematics offers a weekly lecture series on maths didactics. The lectures cover various aspects of teaching maths at school, from the primary to the secondary level. Lectures are held in German, and teachers are welcome. 
         For the full programme, see:  http://didaktik.mathematik.hu-berlin.de 
          /index.php?article_id=190  
         All year: venues throughout Germany 
          Workshops for maths teachers 
         The German Telekom Foundation (Deutsche Telekom Stiftung) in collaboration with the German Mathematicians' Union (Deutsche Mathematiker-Vereinigung, DMV) offers a range of workshops and courses for maths teachers in Germany within their project 'Doing maths differently' (Mathematik Anders Machen). 
         There is a range of courses to choose from,  aimed at maths departments (Fachkonferenzen) of different primary- and secondary-school types. In each case a tandem of scientists and teachers is formed, ensuring a close link between theory (university) and practice (school). The goal is to develop long-term co-operations, and ideally, several courses (each lasting 3-8 hours) should be run on one complex topic. 
         A list of the courses currently on offer is available online. Customised courses can be developed, should your needs not be met by the current offers.         
         More information and applications:  www.schule-interaktiv.de 
          /mathematik-anders-machen 
         Contact:  mathematik-anders-machen@telekom.de , tel. +49 (0)228 1819 2014 
           All year: Deutsches Museum, Munich, Germany 
          School activities and teacher training 
         The Deutsches Museum  not only hosts a collection of masterpieces of science and technology, but also offers a rich programme for school children of all ages and for their teachers. 
         
           One- and two-hour guided tours and activities for school classes 
           Activities for children aged 3-8 or 8-14 
           Workshops and activities during the school holidays 
           Lectures for young people, the general public and university students 
           Educational materials and resources (available online) 
           A creative writing lab for school students, in which they can discover the stories behind the inventions and the debates behind the facts, through writing their own fictional texts. 
         
          In co-operation with the  Technical University of Munich, the museum also hosts the TUMLab, a hands-on science lab which offers: 
         
           Courses and workshops for students, teachers, and others aged 10 and over 
           The 'junior assistant' programme, which trains school students to become supervisors and guides for other school classes. 
           Live video conferences with research scientists at work in their labs 
           Competitions 
           Teacher training courses. 
         
         More information:  www.deutsches-museum.de  and  www.tumlab.de  
          Contact: +49 (0)89 217 91 
         All year: Bildungsnetzwerk Klima & Energie, Oldenburg, Germany 
          School activities: energy and climate education  
         The education network climate & energy (Bildungsnetzwerk Klima & Energie) is run by the city of Oldenburg to foster climate and energy education in schools. 
         To offer your students first-hand experience and information, why not get in touch with one of the network's two dozen partners from industry, ranging from energy providers and solar power companies to architects of eco-friendly houses. See:  www.oldenburg.de/stadtol 
          /index.php?id=5871  
         To visit a site related to energy production and climate, including a solar-powered boat, a water mill and a wind-power park, see:  www.oldenburg.de/stadtol 
          /index.php?id=5765  
         To borrow a wide range of materials - from books and experimental boxes to games and measuring instruments - suitable for both primary and secondary education, see:  www.oldenburg.de/stadtol 
          /index.php?id=5869  
         More information:  www.oldenburg.de/stadtol 
          /index.php?id=energiebildung 
         Contact: Christel Sahr ( christel.sahr@stadt-oldenburg.de ), tel. +49 (0)441 248 376 
         All year: EWE AG, Oldenburg, Germany 
          School activities: energy education and teacher training  
         The  energy provider EWE offers a range of activities for local primary, secondary and vocational schools. Free teaching materials, such as comics, magazines, posters and experimental boxes, can be ordered. EWE also offer a number of online games for both primary and secondary students, on energy topics relevant to the curriculum. 
         EWE representatives give talks  on  energy-related topics covered in the primary- and secondary-school curricula, including household energy use, practical ways to save energy, and sources of energy. 
         The 'Energiemobile', a  lorry containing mobile workspaces, measuring instruments, multimedia and other materials, can be booked to visit school. 
         Alternatively, your school might want to join EWE's new project, 'Sonnenklar', aimed at secondary and vocational schools. Solar panels are mounted on the school's roof, and EWE provide teaching materials, computers, its 'energy mobile' truck and teacher training on energy topics. 
         More information:  www.ewe.de/ewe-ist-mehr/schulen.php  
         All year: Münster, Germany 
         Programme for girls: 'Light up your life' 
         The 'Light up your life' programme offers girls in grade 8 and above (aged 14+) an insight into future-oriented jobs and fosters their interests in science, mathematics and technology. 
         Using light as a topic relevant to many areas of everyday life, such as displays of mobile phones, colours in cosmetics, the workings of traffic lights, LCD-alarm clocks or domestic lighting, workhops demonstrate the versatility of light. The girls can explore the phenomena of light in hands-on experiments, complemented by visits to companies and research institutes working with light, to get an insight into the variety of possible jobs. 
         The programme is complemented by a web community, and participants get a certificate at the end. 
         More information:  www.lightupyourlife.de 
         Contact:  lightupyourlife@uni-muenster.de  
         All year: Environmental Education Centre, Oldenburg, Germany 
        School activities: environmental education and teacher training 
         The  regional environmental education centre Oldenburg (Umweltbildungszentrum) is one of 28 regional environmental education centres (RUZ) in Lower Saxony. 
         The centre offers free courses for school classes on the topics of energy (renewable  and sustainable energy); healthy food from environmentally friendly agriculture (in co-operation with  organic farmers); experiencing nature (exploring the woods and waters, watching migratory birds, excursions to the moor); health education; development (sustainable companies run by schoolchildren, workshops on sustainability). 
         Further offers include advice for teachers on the topics of environment, energy and development; training courses for teachers and kindergarten employees; a library of environmental education materials and more. 
         More information:  www.oldenburg.de/stadtol 
          /index.php?id=ruz  (Oldenburg) and  www.mk.niedersachsen.de/master 
          /C26716_N12387_L20_D0_I579.html  (all regional centres in Lower Saxony)  
        Contact:  ruz.oldenburg@t-online.de , tel: +19 (0)441 2483 76/78 
         All year: venues across Germany 
          Programme for girls: Taste MINT 
         The 'Taste MINT' programme offers female students in their last year of secondary school (grades 12 or 13, Abiturientinnen) who are interested in taking up a career in science, technology, engineering or mathematics, the possibility to assess their strengths in these areas. 
         Individual and team sessions over  three days simulate the requirements for these jobs. The girls subsequently receive personal feedback and advice, including whether a university or technical college (Fachhochschule) might be more appropriate. At the end of the three days, each participant receives a written report on her  abilities, which can be used to apply to university. 
         More information:  www.tastemint.de  
  Contact:  cordes@life-online.de  or  weisberg@life-online.de  
         All year: venues across the UK 
        Education activities and  resources: Space4Schools 
         Starchaser Industries offers a wide range of educational activities complementing the English national curriculum, to inspire students at all levels in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. On offer are downloadable educational materials; interactive shows, workshops, real rockets, and presentations at your school; rocket kits and much more.  
         More information:  www.space4schools.co.uk  
           All year: Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster, Germany 
        Student workshops and teacher training 
         Münster University's didactics workshop (Didaktischen Werkstatt Sachunterricht) offers a number of support activities for primary-school science teachers and their pupils, including workshops and  training for teachers, as well as an open lab for teachers who need help  preparing a bigger project. 
         Visiting school classes can do practical work on a number of topics, such as building vehicles,  musical instruments, sundials or other measuring instruments, electrical circuits and much more. 
          Boxes of materials to teach science topics such as magnetism, salt, bridges and gravity can be borrowed by primary-school teachers. These boxes are available throughout Germany. 
         More information:  www.uni-muenster.de/Sachunterrichtsdidaktik 
          /werkstatt  (didactic workshop) and  www.telekom-stiftung.de/dtag/cms/content 
          /Telekom-Stiftung/de/410550  (boxes) 
        Contact: Torben Wilke ( torbenwilke@uni-muenster.de ), tel: +49 (0)251 83 384 96 or +49 (0)151 527 382 96 
         All year: Museum König, Bonn, Germany 
          Student workshops: Winged Nature 
         The joint project 'Natur beflügelt' (Winged Nature) by the Alexander-König-Gesellschaft and the Museum König gives school students aged 11-16 who are interested in science the opportunity to discover and explore  biodiversity. 
         Three types of projects are on offer: a weekly science club at the museum every Saturday; a range of holiday workshops and excursions on a number of topics; and the resources to help schools to set up student clubs (Arbeitsgemeinschaft). 
         More information:  www.zfmk.de/web 
          /Foerderer/Natur_beflgelt/index.de.html  
        Contact: Johannes Schlarb ( Johannes.Schlarb@telekom.de ), tel: +49 (0)228 1819 2113 
         All year: Deutsches Museum Bonn, Germany 
          School activities        
         The Deutsches Museum Bonn is a subsidiary of the  Deutsches Museum  in Munich. It offers the following to schools: 
 
 Topical tours for school groups aged 12 and older 
 Workshops for children aged 4-15 
 An experimental kitchen (ExperimentierKüche) for students from grades 2-13 (aged 8-19) to discover hands-on chemistry using everyday materials 
 The experimental learning station 'Mannometer: Nanometer!' on nanotechnology, for students in grades 9 and 10 (ages 15-17) 
 Experimental boxes on the topic of 'swimming and sinking' for primary-school classes of up to 25 students from grades 2-4 (ages 7-10)  
 A special programme (Laborführerschein ExperimentierKüche) for students of five-year-secondary schools (Hauptschule) in grade 8 (ages 14-15) who are interested in a chemistry-related career. Most of the programmes are run in German, but some programmes are available in English. 
   
 More information:  www.deutsches-museum.de/bonn   
  Contact:  info@deutsches-museum-bonn.de  
 All year: many European countries 
        Training courses: Roberta: teaching science with robots 
         The Roberta initiative is a project developed in Germany by the  Fraunhofer Institute for Intelligent Analysis and Information Systems , and it has now been adapted to other European countries. It addresses the lack of engineers by raising girls' and boys' interest in the technical professions. With the use of standardised robotics kits, Roberta allows a hands-on introduction to technology. 
         A network of regional centres (currently in Austria, Germany, Italy, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK) provide training and support for interested Roberta course instructors (e.g. teachers, educators, skilled students), as well as lending robot construction kits. In addition, Roberta academies at extracurricular learning locations offer regular taster courses for schools in their region, so that  teachers can try out the concept. 
         More information:  www.roberta-home.de/en  
        Contact:  roberta-zentrale@iais.fraunhofer.de  
         All year: many venues across Germany 
          Engineering academies for middle school students (JIA) 
         The German Telecom Foundation has teamed up with schools, universities and regional partners from industry and science to support junior engineering academies (Junior-Ingenieur-Akademien, JIA) across Germany. These regional projects aim to show students from grade 8 onwards (aged 15+) what the work of engineers, scientists and researchers is like, in order to interest them in engineering careers. Activities at school complement visits to companies and science institutes, as well as workshops, excursions, internships and more. See also the  SIA project  for students from grade 10 onwards (aged 17+). 
         To specifically foster the enthusiasm of girls in these subjects, the Fraunhofer Society has joined in, offering a continuous programme for students from grade 8 through to the beginning of university studies in engineering.   
         More information:  www.telekom-stiftung.de/dtag/cms/content 
          /Telekom-Stiftung/de/410620  and  www.telekom-stiftung.de/dtag/cms/content 
          /Telekom-Stiftung/de/435930  (for information on starting your own JIA) 
           All year: many venues across Germany 
          Engineering academies for school students (SIA) 
         The SIA project (Schüler-Ingenieur Akademie),  a collaboration between schools, high schools and industry, supports secondary-school students who are interested and talented in science and technology, to help them enter a career in engineering. 
         Requirements at the different locations vary, but generally,  students from grade 10 or 12 onwards (aged 16+ or 18+) are encouraged to take part in extracurricular teaching and lab courses, as well as other related activities, over the course of 1-3 school years. 
         More information:  www.sia-bw.de ,  www.sia.ulm.de ,  www.sia-online.de  and  www.telekom-stiftung.de 
          /dtag/cms/content/Telekom-Stiftung/de 
          /410580;jsessionid 
          =277EBA6C8CE1D12A941749A64FD7AA81  
         If you're interested in starting your own SIA, see:  www.telekom-stiftung.de/dtag/cms 
          /content/Telekom-Stiftung/de/435930  
         All year: Education centre for chemistry teachers, Bremen and Oldenburg, Germany 
        Teacher training 
         Since May 2002, the education centre for chemistry teachers in Bremen and Oldenburg offers courses and teacher training across the whole of northern Germany, from primary- to secondary-school level. 
          Courses are taught at   the two universities and directly in schools. The costs for the courses vary. 
         More information:  www.lfz.uni-bremen.de 
         Contact: Prof. Ilka Parchmann, Prof.  Mathias Wickleder, Dr Holger Lüschen 
            (Uni Oldenburg,  lfz-chemie@uni-oldenburg.de , tel: +49 (0)441 798 3601/3694); Prof Franz-Peter Montforts, Prof.  Ingo Eilks, Dr Martina Osmers, Dr Stephan Leupold (Uni Bremen,  lfz-chemie@uni-bremen.de , tel: +49 (0)421 2184 278)  
 
         
         If you organise events or competitions that would be of interest to European science teachers and you would like to see them mentioned in Science in School, please email details - including date, location, title, abstract, price, language, registration deadline, website,  contact email address, and any restrictions on who can attend - to  editor@scienceinschool.org .   
	      

   
     
         

             30469 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

            
                        
          
                       Return to top of page  
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note