About Science in School | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   
 



 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
   Home   » About Science in School 
                     About Science in School           
          
                    
            

 



            Last updated Mon, 2011-10-24 11:42 — sis
      
   
    
 Science in School aims to promote inspiring science teaching by encouraging communication between teachers, scientists,  and everyone else involved in European science education. 
       The journal addresses science teaching both across Europe and across disciplines: highlighting the best in teaching and cutting-edge research. It  covers not only  biology ,  physics  and  chemistry , but also   earth sciences ,  engineering  and  medicine , focusing on  interdisciplinary  work. 
       The contents  include  teaching materials ;  cutting-edge science ; important  science topics ,  projects in science education ; interviews with inspiring  scientists  and  teachers ;  reviews  of books and other resources; and European  events  for teachers and schools, and many other useful resources for science teachers. 
       Science in School  is published quarterly and is  available free on this website; free print copies in English are  distributed across Europe.  
       You don't have to register to read and download any of the articles on our website. If you do register (it's free), you can subscribe to the  print version, receive an email alert, leave your comments on articles, and use our  discussion forum . Online articles are published in many European languages (see the flags at the top of each page); the print version is in English. 
       Originally supported by European Commission under an FP6 grant, Science in School is now published and  funded by  EIROforum  (a partnership between eight of Europe’s largest inter-governmental scientific research organisations). The journal is a non-profit activity and is based at the  European Molecular Biology Laboratory  (EMBL) in Heidelberg, Germany.    

   
     
         

             28597 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

            
                        
          
                       Return to top of page  
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note