The drama of science | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 13 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Teaching science and humanities: an interdisciplinary approach  
  Warrior against pseudoscience: Daniella Muallem  
  Plastics in cars: polymerisation and recycling  
  Is climate change all gloom and doom? Introducing stabilisation wedges  
  Translations - from today’s science to tomorrow’s medicine in Berlin-Buch  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 13  » The drama of science 			             The drama of science                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by sis on 08 December 2009 

 



  
   
    	 
       
          
		Joseph Wright of Derby, An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump, 1768, oil on canvas in The National Gallery, London, UK 
		Image courtesy of The Yorck Project: 10.000 Meisterwerke der Malerei; image source: Wikimedia Commons 
		 
		 Do you enjoy the drama of science? The colour, the smells, the intricacies? Why not follow science teacher Bernhard Sturm’s suggestions: let your students bring yet more drama into the classroom by (re-)enacting science, to help them visualise and remember the lesson. 
		 Drama can combine elements of art, music and sport, and develop students’ creativity and fitness as well as their emotional and aesthetic awareness. As team activities, they also promote communication and co-operation among young learners. So why not use drama in science teaching? 
		 
       
	   
	   This article offers a selection of drama-based activities to act or re-enact science in the chemistry and physics classroom. 
	   Chemistry 
	   Redox reactions 
	   This is a method to visualise the exchange of oxygen between different metal atoms within the redox series (after Lavoisier). Each student wears a top in one of three colours, representing atoms of oxygen and two different metals (there should be equal numbers of each colour). In groups of about 8-10, the students enact simple redox reactions with 1:1 stoichiometry, such as CuO + Fe ? Cu + FeO, and afterwards present them to the entire class. Students often find creative ways to represent both the activation energy and the release of energy in these reactions. 
       Chemical bonding: conductivity of water (Grotthuss mechanism)  
  	   
		 
		 
		 The following method can be used to demonstrate how an electric current passes rapidly through water, although the protons do not travel: instead, a positive charge is transmitted. The students should wear tops in one of two colours, representing hydrogen and oxygen atoms (ratio 2:1). Arrange a line of water molecules: each molecule consists of two (kneeling) hydrogen atoms and one (standing) oxygen atom. The oxygen atom touches one hydrogen atom with his or her right hand and the other hydrogen atom with his or her right foot (see diagram on the right). The hydrogen atom’s arms and legs have no function. One extra hydrogen atom is attached to the oxygen atom (touched by his or her left hand) at one end of the line (H 3 O + ). The arms and legs of the oxygen students represent electron pairs. The surplus binding electron pair is passed from one end of the line of water molecules to the other, as the oxygen atom in the H 3 O +  molecule lets go of the hydrogen atom with his or her right hand; instead, the oxygen atom of the neighbouring molecule touches this hydrogen atom with his or her left hand, and so on down the line. 
		 	
		     
		  Staging the Grotthuss mechanism: 
		    Red: hydrogen atom (kneeling) 
		    Blue: oxygen atom (standing) 
		    Bent arms/legs: free electron pairs in the oxygen atom 
		    Stretched arms/legs: binding electron pairs 
		    The positive charge passes rapidly down from the right side of the line (H 3 O + ) to the left (H + ) by rearranging electron pairs and exchanging protons from one water molecule to the next. 
		    Click to enlarge image  
	      Image courtesy of Bernhard Sturm  
	   
 	
		   Radical polymerisation of ethene to polyethylene 
		 
		 
		   Radical polymerisation of ethene. Click to enlarge image 
		      
                 
            Radical polymerisation of buta-1,3-diene. Click to enlarge image 
          Diagrams adapted from Pöpping (2003) 
		 
		 The following method is useful for understanding the mechanism of polymerisation and differentiating between the synthesis of linear and cross-linked polymers. The polymerisation of ethene is illustrated, integrating all students one by one. Each body represents a carbon atom, each foot a hydrogen atom and each arm a binding electron. A single student (representing a methyl radical) waves his or her arm (an unpaired electron). Two students holding both hands (a double bond) represent an ethene molecule. The radical binds to the ethene molecule: one of the components of the ethene molecule has to break one handclasp (binding electron) and bind to the free electron of the radical (new handclasp). The resulting molecule with three carbon atoms is again a radical. It binds another ethene molecule, and so on (see diagram on the left).  
 This model can be extended to represent the cross-linking of buta-1,3-diene: the students representing the C 2  and C 3  atoms of the molecule touch feet to symbolise the single bond (see diagram on the left). The arrival of a methyl radical causes one of the double bonds (double handclasps) in the buta-1,3-diene molecule to break, and a new single bond (handclasp) is formed between the methyl radical and, for example, the C 4  atom. The newly formed molecule is also a radical, with a free electron at C 3 . The C 1  atom of a second buta-1,3-diene molecule can thus bind, breaking its double bond (double handclasp) and forming a cross-link (handclasp) with C 3  of the original molecule. The resultant nine-carbon molecule is also a radical, with a free binding electron at C 2  of the second buta-1,3-diene molecule.  			  
	   
 
	     Physical states of water 
		 The spacing and velocity of water molecules differs between solid, liquid and gaseous states. In this exercise, students act as water molecules. In my experience, it is best done outside, where there is more space, and it helps to separate the class into male and female teenagers – one group acts, the other watches. The teacher tells the students how to move around: beginning with winter (0 °C), the students should stand still and in a grid formation. As the year goes on, it becomes spring and summer, and the molecules move faster (up to 40 °C), but still stay in contact. Finally, the molecules end up in a kettle, heat up and evaporate (100 °C). 
		  In each phase, the teacher takes a snapshot of the state by shouting “Stop!”. Actors (e.g. the girls) and spectators (e.g. the boys) describe what was happening before and what they can see around themselves now. 
		  The groups of actors and spectators then swap roles, and the molecules ‘cool down’ to 0 °C again. 
		 This activity can be modified to demonstrate the thermal expansion of benzene, with eight students surrounding about 20 ‘benzene’ students with a slack rope, until the pressure through ‘heating’ becomes too strong and the surrounding students are forced to let go of the rope.  
		 Physics 
		 Vacuum 
		 The painting An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump  w1   by Joseph Wright of Derby (1768) can be used to teach the history of vacuum. 
		  Divide the class into groups of three, and give each group a reprint of the painting and a worksheet showing the silhouette of the main devices and characters (see image on the right; to be downloaded online  w2  ). The following three questions tend to promote discussion about the painting: 
		 
		    What is the experiment about?  
		    How does it end?  
		    What are the roles and attitudes of the different characters depicted? 
		   		
	     
		 
		  
           		
		 
            Joseph Wright of Derby, An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump, 1768, oil on canvas in The National Gallery, London, UK
            Image courtesy of The Yorck Project: 10.000 Meisterwerke der Malerei; image source: Wikimedia Commons		 		  
		   
		   
		 
 
		 
		 
	          Silhouette of the painting, including the characters’ lines of vision		
		 
 
 
		 
    
	
		 
		 
	          Re-enacting the vacuum painting with students aged 13-14 
          Images courtesy of Bernhard Sturm		
		   		
		 
		 
		   After the discussion, the whole scene can be re-enacted by the students using a vacuum pump, with a ‘Schokokuss’ (a small chocolate-covered cream cake) to replace the bird. 
           Electric circuit 
         This activity is useful for introducing the idea of electrons as moving charges that transport energy. One student represents the source of energy (a battery): he or she stands at one end of the classroom and hands out small bags of jelly babies (energy). At the other end of the classroom, another student represents the ‘consumer’ of energy: he or she collects the bags. You can put some tables in the centre of the room to mark out a circuit. 
         The remaining students represent the electrons: they queue at the energy source and, one by one, are given a bag of jelly babies, then enter the ‘electric circuit’ and walk/run to the ‘consumer’ to hand over the sweets (energy). They then go back to the source to queue again. The ‘electricity’ keeps flowing until the source student runs out of bags (the battery is flat). This activity can be extended to represent parallel and series circuits.  
         Temperature-dependent conductivity 
     This activity is a useful way to demonstrate that the conductivity of metals decreases with increasing temperature, something that can otherwise only be determined experimentally. Outdoors, use chalk to draw a rectangle of 2 x 5 m to represent the cross-section of a conducting cable. Ask about 20 students to stand inside the rectangle; they represent metal atoms. The remaining 10 students (electrons) try to run through the cable while the atoms either stand still (low temperature) or oscillate by moving their bodies (high temperature). The time it takes for the ‘electrons’ to pass through the ‘cable’ is measured with a stopwatch. 
		   Galileo’s law of free fall 
		 
		 
		  
	          Re-enacting Galileo’s discovery of the law of free fall 
          Image courtesy of Bernhard Sturm 
		 
		 To introduce the topic, ask one student (student 1) to read aloud the story of the discovery of the law of free fall  w3  . While one of Galileo’s assistants (student 2) marks time by playing regular guitar beats, Galileo himself (student 3) and his second assistant (student 4) carry out their experiments with a table-tennis ball (or similar – a more solid ball gives better results) and an inclined plane with (metal) cross-strings at different heights (see image on the left).   			  
	   
 
 The ball is allowed to roll down the inclined plane from different heights. Student 4 records: 
		 
		    The number of beats it takes for the ball to roll down the inclined plane  
		   The distance covered by the ball, as indicated by the cross-strings (e.g. 0, 4, 16, 36, 64 cm).  
	   		
   Nuclear disintegration and half-life 
		 In just one lesson, this method yields excellent material to illustrate the idea of half-life, without any complicated or dangerous experimental apparatus. 
		  A game board of 6 x 6 fields is filled with 36 red gaming pieces. Two easily distinguishable dice are thrown and their numbers are used as the X value (die 1) and the Y value (die 2). The red gaming piece on the field that corresponds to the coordinates (X, Y) on the dice disintegrates into (is replaced by) a blue piece. If a pair of numbers is thrown a second time, nothing happens to the pieces, but the double throw is counted. After each set of 10 double throws, the total number of times that the two dice have been thrown (t) and the number of remaining red gaming pieces (N) are recorded. A graph of t against N is used to determine the half-life. 
		  To illustrate different half-lives, you could use 8-sided dice and a game board with 8 x 8 fields, or change the rules so that each field has to be hit twice before the red pieces disintegrate. 
		 Acknowledgements 
		 Some of the activities in this article were inspired by the work of others. The author, therefore, would like to acknowledge his debt to  Pöpping (2003 ;  Radical polymerisation of ethene to polyethylene ),  Schreiber (2004 ;  Physical states of water ),  Fallscheer (2006 ;  Electric circuit ),  Bührke (2003) ,  Drake (1975) ,  Hepp (2004)  and  Riess et al. (2005 ;  Galileo’s law of free fall ), and  Barke & Harsch (2001 ;  Nuclear disintegration and half-life ). 
	   References 
	     Barke HD, Harsch G (2001) Chemiedidaktik heute. Lernprozesse in Theorie und Praxis. Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany: Springer. ISBN: 9783540417255 
		   Bührke T (2003) Sternstunden der Physik: Von Galilei bis Lise Meitner. München, Germany: Beck. ISBN: 9783406494932 
		   Drake S (1975) The Role of Music in Galileo’s Experiments. Scientific American 6: 98-104 
		   Fallscheer H (2006) Der Gummibärchen-Stromkreis. Unterricht Physik 17: 38-41 
		   Hepp R (2004) Mit dem freien Fall beginnen. Unterricht Physik 15: 23-26 
		   Pöpping W (2003) Lineare und vernetzte Kunststoffe bilden. Unterricht Chemie 14: 39-40 
		   Riess F, Heering P, Nawrath D (2005) Reconstructing Galileo’s Inclined Plane Experiments for Teaching Purposes.  www.ihpst2005.leeds.ac.uk/papers/Riess_Heering_Nawrath.pdf  
		   Schreiber S (2004) Lebendiges Teilchenmodell. Unterricht Chemie 15: 15-17 
	   Web references 
	     w1 – An electronic version of the painting with a zoom function can be found on the website of the National Gallery in London, UK ( www.nationalgallery.org.uk ) or through this direct link:  www.tinyurl.com/2bqhvx  
         
		  For information about Joseph Wright’s painting, see the detailed description on  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/An_Experiment_on_a_Bird_in_the_Air_Pump  
         
		   w2 – The silhouette of the vacuum painting can be downloaded  here . 
		   w3 – For the story of Galileo’s inclined plane and detailed suggestions for introducing it in the classroom, see:  www.ihpst2005.leeds.ac.uk/papers/Riess_Heering_Nawrath.pdf  
		 Resources 
	   If you enjoyed this and other teaching activities in this issue of Science in School, you might like to browse our collection of previously published teaching activities. See:  www.scienceinschool.org/teaching  
         
	   Bernhard Sturm obtained his PhD in chemistry at the GKSS Research Centre Geesthacht, Germany. He now teaches chemistry and physics at the Neues Gymnasium, a secondary school in Oldenburg, Germany. Over the past few years, his students have won a number of science competitions, especially on geoanalytical and climate topics. One of his main interests is interdisciplinary work linking science, art, language and sports. 
       
 Review 
 This article gives specific and clear ideas about how teachers can use drama to facilitate students’ learning of abstract concepts in physics and chemistry. The activities can be used mainly while tackling standard topics in the curriculum. 
  The fact that the suggested activities do not need complicated or expensive resources makes them easy to use in the classroom. Teachers are given clear and concise guidelines about how to include creative writing and role playing in their lessons. This not only makes science lessons more interesting and fun for the students, but also means they will feel more involved and responsible for their own learning experience. This will also attract students who are more oriented towards languages and the arts because it stimulates their imagination and creativity. Additionally, it can help teachers to start applying small changes to their teaching, as well as provide new ideas for teachers who have already started implementing similar activities in class. 
        Catherine Cutajar, Malta
       
 
           
                
                
                
                
           
          

   
     
              Teaching activities    Chemistry    Physics    Interdisciplinary    Arts    Issue 13    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 6864 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note