Healthy horrors: the benefits of parasites | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     
   
 
   
  		 
        	Tools
             
	             Home 
             
             
	             Index Issue 20 
             
            
                        
                         
	             Send 
             
			             
	             PDF (English) 
             
             
            	 Printer-friendly version 
             
            
             
             


   
		  
		
		 
 
             
            
            
             
            
             

   Selected articles 

       Human evolution: testing the molecular basis  
  Translations - from today’s science to tomorrow’s medicine in Berlin-Buch  
  Single molecules under the microscope  
  Exploring out-of-body experiences: interview with Henrik Ehrsson  
  Alan Leshner: at the interface of science and society  
   
 
             
            
            
             
              
                         
             
                        
             
             
                         
             
            
            
            
            
         
         
        	  Home  »  Issue 20  » Healthy horrors: the benefits of parasites 			             Healthy horrors: the benefits of parasites                 
                
                                    
             Submitted by brown on 23 August 2011 

 



  
   
    
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				The tapeworm head is equipped with two rings of hooks and four suckers to anchor itself to the host’s intestine 
				Image courtesy of the Institute for Parasitology, University of Bern, Switzerland 
			 
				 
					Matt Kaplan investigates the horrors that dwell within us – should we be changing our view of them? 
				 
					The definition of what it is to be a healthy human has been a somewhat stable one for more than a hundred years. In general, dictionaries list good health as a state that is free of infirmity and disease, yet research conducted in the past decade is beginning to throw this classic definition into question as the results of a number of studies suggest that various disease-causing organisms play a key role in managing the health of many animals. 
				 
					One of the most straightforward examples of this involves the parasitic tapeworm genera Anthobothrium and Paraorigmatobothrium. Just like any other tapeworm, they soak up nutrients from digested food while sitting inside animal guts. 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	However, instead of sitting inside the guts of dogs, cats or humans, these worms spend their days residing in the guts of sharks, robbing the predators of nutrients by absorbing them before the sharks can. Whereas small numbers of tapeworms simply force the animals they infest to feed more often, large populations can make host animals very ill. 
 
	Yet, a research study conducted by Masoumeh Malek at the University of Tehran in Iran and a team of colleagues found that these parasitic worms might provide a critically valuable service to their hosts. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					After dissecting 16 whitecheek sharks (Carcharhinus dussumieri) found in the Persian Gulf and removing tapeworms that they found, the team compared the concentrations of different compounds found inside the tissues of the sharks and the worms. They discovered that the worms had astonishing 278 to 455 times higher levels of the toxic metals cadmium and lead inside their little bodies than the sharks did. 
			 
			 
				 
				A shark 
				Image courtesy of qldian / iStockphoto 
		 
	 
 
 
	So these worms, while stealing some nutrients from the sharks’ guts, are likely providing an invaluable service to the sharks by functioning as filters that protect the predators from becoming poisoned by heavy metals ( Malek et al., 2007 ). 
 
	Findings like those in this study are throwing the definition of a parasite into confusion. Parasites are supposed to take what they need, harm their host in the process, and give nothing in return. In contrast, organisms called mutualists provide a benefit to their host and receive some benefit in return; organisms called commensals provide a benefit to a host but do not get anything in return. What role the shark worms, which are traditionally considered to be parasites, are playing is difficult to determine. And such confusion is not unique to shark parasites; many parasites that have a penchant for using humans as hosts are also raising questions. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				Can we use parasites to tame the aggression of the immune system? 
				Image courtesy of Eraxion / iStockphoto 
			 
				 
					The confusion started in the 1970s, when chronic allergy sufferer and researcher John Turton, then at the UK’s Medical Research Council, decided to intentionally infect himself with parasitic hookworms, Necator americanus. His actions might sound insane, but he suspected that something about having parasites to fight would make his immune system change its behaviour and reduce his allergic reactions. Remarkably, Turton’s self-experimentation worked, and he reported in the Lancet, a medical journal, that his allergic reactions were reduced for the two years that the parasites were living inside him ( Turton, 1976 ). 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	The logic behind Turton’s actions relied on the idea that allergies, eczema and asthma are overreactions of the immune system. Under normal circumstances, the immune system searches for harmful organisms and destroys them. However, in patients suffering from allergy, eczema and asthma, the immune system attacks not only harmful organisms, but also materials that are not actually a threat. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					Worms, because they have spent millions of years being attacked by the host’s immune system, have developed defensive mechanisms to help them thwart it. One of the most effective of these is the release of specific compounds to desensitise the host’s immune response, causing the immune system to detect fewer invaders in the body, so that parasites are less likely to be harassed. 
				 
					Damping down the immune system may sound like a bad thing. To some extent it is, particularly when parasites are taking advantage of it. Yet researchers at the University of Nottingham, UK, speculate that, after millions of years of evolution, the human immune system is so used to being attacked by parasites that without them present, it sometimes malfunctions, becoming overly aggressive when they are not around. 
			 
			 
				 
				Sneezing can be one of the consequences of an overreactive immune system 
				Image courtesy of BigPappa / iStockphoto 
		 
	 
 
 
	Although Turton’s work certainly made a point, his experiment only involved a single participant, himself. Good science however requires studies with many participants, and repeated experiments to confirm results. David Pritchard and his colleagues at the Nottingham University School of Pharmacy  w1  , UK, are seeking to do exactly this. 
 
	For years, Pritchard’s team has been looking at allergy and asthma prevalence in both developing countries, where parasitic worms are common, and developed countries, where they are almost entirely absent. They have confirmed the results of many colleagues, who find that allergies are often absent in regions where parasitic worms are commonly found inside people. This may suggest that parasites protect people from allergies and asthma, but because so many other conditions differ between developed and undeveloped countries, which may also play a role, it is impossible to be sure. 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
				Asthma 
				Image courtesy of CT757fan / iStockphoto 
			 
				 
					The only way to find out for certain if such parasites really play a role in keeping the human immune system functioning properly is to infect a large number of allergy, eczema and asthma sufferers with parasitic worms, and to closely monitor their conditions to see if their allergies and asthma become less severe over time when compared to a control group of sufferers who were not infected. 
				 
					Such experiments with asthmatics are currently in progress in Nottingham. Further work with worms may be warranted, depending on how patients respond to the treatment. 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	Of course, even if the research proves that parasites can help treat allergic conditions, the question remains whether many people would be willing to follow in Turton’s footsteps, swallowing a mouthful of worm larvae as a medicine. Luckily, they may not have to: at Strathclyde University in Glasgow, UK, a team of researchers led by William Harnett is experimenting on a complex protein that is created by a parasitic worm (Acanthocheilonema viteae) which infects rodents. Their research suggests that even in the absence of the worm, the isolated protein has the ability to reduce allergic inflammation  w2  . 
 
	Although much work is needed to fully understand what this protein is actually doing, there is a real potential in trying to use parasite proteins to control conditions such as allergies, asthma and eczema. Perhaps the public would find this solution a little more palatable? 
 
	References 
 
	  Garner S, Thomas R (2010) Evaluating a medical treatment. Science in School 16: 54-59.  www.scienceinschool.org/2010/issue16/clinical  
 
	  Malek M et al. (2007) Parasites as heavy metal bioindicators in the shark Carcharhinus dussumieri from the Persian Gulf. Parasitology 134(7): 1053-1056. doi:  10.1017/S0031182007002508  
 
	  Turton JA (1976) IgE, parasites, and allergy. The Lancet. 308(7987): 686. doi:  10.1016/S0140-6736(76)92492-2  
 
	Web references 
 
	  w1 – To find out more about the work of David Pritchard and his colleagues, see:  www.nottingham.ac.uk/pharmacy/people/david.pritchard  
 
	  w2 – For more information about William Harnett’s work, see:  http://spider.science.strath.ac.uk/sipbs/staff/Billy_Harnett.htm  
 
	  w3 – To find out more about the author, Matt Kaplan, see:  www.scholarscribe.com  
 
	Resources 
 
	To learn about further research into worm parasites, see: 
 
	 
		Wilson A, Haslam S (2009) Sugary insights into worm parasite infections. Science in School 11: 20-24.  www.scienceinschool.org/2009/issue11/schistosomiasis  
 
 
	If you enjoyed this article, you might like to browse other science topics in Science in School. See:  www.scienceinschool.org/sciencetopics  
 
 
	Matt Kaplan is a professional science journalist, based in both London, UK, and Los Angeles, CA, USA, who regularly reports on everything from palaeontology and parasites to virology and viticulture. When not stuck behind a desk, he runs wilderness expeditions in far-flung regions of the world. See his website  w3  . 
	For Science in School articles, Matt waives his usual writing fee. 
 
	 
		Review 
	 
		This article is an excellent introduction to the different types of interactions between organisms and could be used in many ways. 
	 
		Several types of parasite are discussed in the article. Where do we meet parasites in everyday life? Students might, for example, thinks of endoparasites like worms in cats, dogs and aquarium fish or of ectoparasites such as ticks, lice and leeches. In which organ systems do these parasites occur and what effects do they have on their hosts? Perhaps the students could investigate the dangers and uses of leeches throughout history. They could also investigate the life cycle of a particular parasite and think about how its anatomy is adapted to its way of life. 
	 
		The article goes on to investigate the interaction of parasites with the immune system and could be used to introduce a discussion about the immune system, its constituents and regulation. What about when the immune system itself causes problems? How much do the students know about asthma and allergies? Do any of them suffer from allergies? What are the causes, how can these allergies be treated in the long run and how should the students react in an emergency? 
	 
		The author then introduces the idea of using parasites or parasite extracts to treat allergy conditions. How much do the students know about conventional medicine? Perhaps they could discuss antibiotics and bacterial resistance, and whether they think parasites could, in future, be used as an alternative or supplementary medicine? They could also discuss how new treatments are developed and tested (see  Garner & Thomas, 2010 ). 
	 
		Should treatments be tested only on volunteers, or is it the duty of all citizens to undergo such testing? Who should pay for the research and who profits from it? Is it right for medicines to be patented? What about patenting things like gene sequences or genetically modified organisms? 
	 
		Morten Schunck, Denmark 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
				 
					 
						Referee's recommendations: Biology, Parasitology 
						Ages 13+ 
				 
			 
		 
	 
 
 
	 
		 
			 
				   
			 
				   
			 
				   
		 
	 
 
 
	  
   

   
     
              Cutting-edge science    Biology    Medicine    Science    Issue 20    English       
         

              Login  or  register  to post comments 
 1187 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

             
                        
               Return to top of page  
              
         
          
   
 

     
 
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 

     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note