University of Surrey 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
  
  
  
  
  

    
 
	    
  
 

 
	  
 
  
 
	
	 

		
		
		 
		
			  Skip to content  
			  University of Surrey  
			
			
			 
				 
					 Search the University of Surrey 
					 Search term 
					 
					 
					 					
					 
															 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			 
              
                
            Home | 
            Study | 
            Research | 
            Business | 
            Arts | 
            About Us | 
            News | 
            Alumni  
         
  			 

			
			
						
			 
  			   
			    
 
  		 
			 Important announcement 
																																				  Surrey water researchers win Queen's Anniversary Prize  
																		
		 
	 
	

	 
	  	   
  	     Important announcement 
	    		  Meet Professor Lisa Roberts...  
	   
	 	
  
	 
	  	   
  	     Important announcement 
	    		  Surrey wins awards for excellence in Chemical Engineering...  
	   
	 	
  
	 
	  	   
  	     Important announcement 
	    		  World record number of honorary graduates...  
	   
	 	
  
	 
	  	   
  	     Important announcement 
	    		  Surrey nuclear experts gain £2M award to examine exploding stars...  
	   
	 	
  			   
			 			
			
			
		 
		
		
		
		
		
		 
			
						
			 

				
				 Courses, prospectuses and international students 
				
				
				 
				
					
					 
						 Course finder 
						   
    
	 
	
		
	 
	 1. Choose your type of course 
	 
	   1. Choose a course type... 
       Undergraduate 
	   Postgraduate Taught (eg MA/MSC) 
       Postgraduate Research (eg PhD/MPhil) 
	   Continuing Professional Development (CPD) 
	  	   English Language Courses 
	   Evening Language Courses 
     
	 
  
  
     
	 2. Choose a subject 
     
	   2. Choose a subject 
	 	
	 
	
	 
	 Find your courses   
    	 Order a prospectus » 
		 
	
	 
	
	
  
   
					 

					
					 						
																	 
				 
								
			
																																					
								 
									

    
     
	  																					  Vacancies for Academic Staff»  
	  
	  
	  	 
	
	  






   
								 
							
																											
								 
									

    
     
	  																					  Coming from Overseas»  
	  
	  
	   Welcoming international students from all around the world... 	 
	
	  






   
								 
							
																			
				  
				
			 
			
			
			
			
			
			
			 
						
			
			 			
			   Thinking about Surrey?  The University of Surrey is an international university with a worldwide reputation for excellence in teaching and research. It offers students a unique combination of high academic standards, employment success and a prime location in beautiful surroundings, yet with ease of access to London. Our undergraduate and postgraduate students experience a first-rate working environment and a lively social life.    Undergraduate Study »    Postgraduate Study »    Continuing Professional Development (CPD) »    Professional Training »   			 
			
			 
			   Quick Links 		  
			  
			  
			   			  
			  
  			  
			   
				 Information for... 
				 Information for... 
				 
					 Information for... 
					
	
			 Students 
	
	
			 Staff 
	
	
			 Visitors 
	
	
			 Media 
	
	
			 Alumni 
	
	
			 International Students 
	
	
			 Employers 
	
	
			 Schools and Colleges 
	
	
			 Parents 
	
	
			 Suppliers 
					 
				 
			   
			  
			   
				 Information about... 
				 Information about... 
				 
					 Information about... 
					
	
			 Vice-Chancellor's Office 
	
	
			 Surrey International Institute, DUFE 
	
	
			 Learning and Teaching 
	
	
			 The University Library 
	
	
			 Academic Faculties 
	
	
			 Professional Training 
	
	
			 Sports 
	
	
			 Students' Union 
					 
				 
			   
			  
			  
			   
				 Academic Departments 
				 Academic Departments 
				 
					 Academic departments 
	  			    
	

					
	
	
		
		
	
	 
	  	   Faculty website 
	  
    
		
					
	     Politics 
  
    
		
					
	     Psychology 
  
    
		
					
	     Sociology 
  
    
		
					
	     School of Arts  
  
    
		
					
	     School of English and Languages  
  	 
	
	
	


	

					
	
	
		
		
	
	 
	  	   Faculty website 
	  
    
		
					
	     The Surrey Business School 
  
    
		
					
	     School of Economics 
  
    
		
					
	     Department of Health Care Management and Policy 
  
    
		
					
	     School of Hospitality and Tourism Management 
  
    
		
					
	     School of Law 
  	 
	
	
	


	

													
	
	
		
		
	
	 
	  	   Faculty website 
	  
    
		
					
	     Civil, Chemical and Environmental Engineering 
  
    
		
					
	     Computing 
  
    
		
					
	     Electronic Engineering 
  
    
		
													
	     Mathematics 
  
    
		
					
	     Division of Mechanical, Medical and Aerospace Engineering 
  
    
		
					
	     Physics 
  	 
	
	
	


	

													
	
	
		
		
	
	 
	  	   Faculty website 
	  
    
			
					
	     Biochemical Sciences 
  
    
			
					
	     Chemical Sciences 
  
    
			
					
	     Health and Social Care 
  
    
			
					
	     Microbial Sciences 
  
    
		
													
	     Nutritional Sciences 
  
    
			
					
	     Postgraduate Medical School 
  	 
	
	
	

				 
				 
			   
			  
			  
			   
				 Central service departments 
				 Central service departments 
				 
				   Central service departments 
	  			                          													 Academic Registry 
													 Accommodation Services 
													 Additional Learning Support 
													 Alumni and Development Office 
													 Audio Visual Services 
													 Bookshop 
													 Business Support Services 
													 Calendar 
													 Careers Service 
													 Catering Services 
													 Central Distribution 
													 Centre for Educational and Academic Development 
													 Centre for Wellbeing 
													 Chaplaincy 
													 Communication and PR 
													 Conferences 
													 Dean of Students office 
													 Deputy Vice-Chancellor's office 
													 Director of Corporate Services 
													 Educational Liaison Centre 
													 Equality and Diversity 
													 Estates and Facilities Management 
													 Finance 
													 Finance System (Agresso) 
													 Health and Safety 
													 Human Resources 
													 Internal Audit 
													 International Relations 
													 International Student Office 
													 IT Services 
													 Library Services 
													 Marketing and Market Development 
													 Occupational Health 
													 Pensions 
													 Planning 
													 Post Room 
													 Procurement and Payments 
													 Professional Training 
													 Registrar's Division 
													 Research Administration Services (RAS) 
													 Research and Enterprise Support (RES) 
													 SCEPTrE 
													 Security 
													 SPLASH 
													 Staff Development 
													 Student Care Services 
													 Student Recruitment Office 
													 Surrey Design and Print 
													 Surrey Sports Park 
													 Television Studio 
													 Vice-Chancellor's Office 
											  									 
				 
			   
			   
			  
			  
			   
			      Job opportunities »  
				 Find out about current vacancies. 
			   
			  
			   
			      Research »  
				 Find out about our pioneering research. 
			   
			  
			 
			
			  
			
			 
				
				 Visiting and contacting the University 
				
				 
				  
				  View Larger Map  
				 
			
				  University of Surrey, Guildford Surrey GU2 7XH Tel: +44 (0)1483 300800 Fax: +44 (0)1483 300803     Contact us    Visiting the University    Information for Disabled Visitors    Open Days    Virtual Tour        			  
			 

			
			
			
			 
			
			 
								
				
																										
				
				
																										
				
				
								
				
																																																														
																
 Expert Comment 
 
  Revised employment law implemented by Government   
 As Government Ministers announce that cutting the cost and bureaucracy of laying off workers will help businesses remain profitable through a tough economic situation Dr Alf Crossman, Senior Lecturer at the Surrey Business School, believes that there are key questions of principle to be raised:  “Is the planned changed really going to act as a stimulus for employment growth? I feel it is unlikely that small employers will be rushing out to offer new jobs on the basis of their new-found ease of sacking people."  
  More expert comments »  
 

	
		
    									
														
							
												
												
	
				

			
						
			
			
			
	
										 News 
 
  New coatings process to reduce the carbon footprint of the transport industry  
 Researchers at the University of Surrey have invented a new process to make bespoke coatings that could one day reduce the ‘drag resistance’ of ships and aeroplanes and thereby lower fuel consumption.  

 
  Space conditions recreated at the University of Surrey  
 Experts in space technology at the University of Surrey will get the chance to test small satellite thrusters in space-like conditions thanks to a new vacuum chamber facility.  The new Surrey Propulsion Lab (SPL) will house five vacuum chambers, as well as other equipment that enables the testing and analysis of propulsion systems that produce small milli-Newton levels of thrust.  

 
  Breakthrough in low loss high frequency carbon nanotube electronics   
 A collaboration between researchers at the University of Surrey’s Advanced Technology Institute and the Faculty of Mechatronics of Warsaw University of Technology in Poland reports that low electrical loss at frequencies of up to 220 GHz are possible in screen printed carbon nanotube – polymer composites.  Producing such low electrical loss materials potentially opens up new types of high frequency large area electronic devices.  

 
  Evening light disrupts sleep and the biological clock: New clues to why we go to bed so late  
 Researchers at the Surrey Sleep Research Centre at the University of Surrey have found that the evening light we are exposed to in an indoor environment affects our biological clock and disrupts sleep quality.  The ordinary, artificial indoor-light we are exposed to in the evening suppresses the rise of the sleep-inducing hormone ‘melatonin’.  Artificial light exposure makes us feel less sleepy and, therefore, we may be inclined to delay bedtime.  However, we still have to get up early in the morning and deal with sleep deprivation and the negative health implications associated with it.    
				
	
	
	
				
				  More news stories »  
				    


			 
			

			
			 

			

		
						
			


			
												  
								
								 	



		
				
		
			
		 
		
			
			
			
			
			

	
	
	


 
   
     
      	   120 Years: A history of shaping the future since 1891 
       
     
        Accessibility | 
        Contacting the University | 
        Disclaimer | 
        Freedom of Information | 
        About this page  
     
     
       
         ©  University of Surrey , 
        Guildford, 
        Surrey, 
        GU2 7XH,
        United Kingdom. +44 (0)1483 300800