HowStuffWorks "How Electric Motors Work"  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 


  
 
  
	  
 
	 
  
  
  
		 
			 
 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
	 
         
                  
                 
         
         
                 
			 
				
					 
				
				 
			 
                 
         
	 
		  
		  
	 
 
 
 
	 
	 
		  Adventure  		  Auto  		  Culture  		  Entertainment  		  Home & Garden  		  Money  		  Science  		  Tech  		  Video  
		  Shows  
		  Blogs  
		  Quizzes  
		  Games  
		  Random Article  
	 
 
 
 
		 
			 Communication 
		 
		  		 
			 Computer 
		 
		  		 
			 Electronics 
		 
		 
 
			 
			 
				 

  
	 
		 
			 
	  Home  >  
	  Tech  >  
	  Electronics  >  
	  Solid State Electronics  
 
		 
	 
 

  
	 
		 
			 
  How Electric Motors Work  by  Marshall Brain   
 
		 
		 
			 
	 
		 Print 
	 
	 
		 
	 
		 
			 Cite This! 
			 
				 Close  
			 
		 
		 
			Please copy/paste the following text to properly cite this HowStuffWorks article:  
 
Brain, Marshall.  "How Electric Motors Work"  01 April 2000.  HowStuffWorks.com. <http://www.howstuffworks.com/motor.htm>  28 November 2011. 
		 
	 
	 Cite 
 
	 
	 
		 Feedback 
	 
	 
		 

 
  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
 
         
                 
  
	 
		 
			 Gadgets Deconstructed 		 
		 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Watch now 	 
 
		 
	 
                  
         
         
 
	 
		  
	 
 
 
	 Inside this Article 
	 

	 
		 
			  Introduction to How Electric Motors Work  
			  Inside an Electric Motor  
			  Toy Motor  
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 
				 More Motor Parts 
							 
			 
				 Electromagnets and Motors 
							 
			 
				 Armature, Commutator and Brushes 
							 
			 
				 See more » 
									 
											  Putting It All Together  
											  Motors Everywhere!  
											  Lots More Information  
											  See all Solid State Electronics articles  
										 
							 
		 
	 
 
 
         
 
		 
	 
 

  
	 
		 
			
 
	 

 
	 
		
				 Inside an Electric Motor Image Gallery 
	 
	 
		
 Electric motors are everywhere.  

	
 © iStockphoto.com /sethuphoto 

		 
 
  
	 
		 
			 Related Articles 		 
		 
			 
	  How Brushless Electric Motors Work  
	  Electric Motor Quiz  
 
		 
	 
 

	 

	 

 Electric motors are everywhere! In your house, almost every mechanical movement that you see around you is caused by an AC (alternating current) or DC (direct current) electric motor.  A simple motor has six parts:   Armature or rotor  Commutator  Brushes  Axle  Field magnet  DC power supply of some sort   By understanding how a motor works you can learn a lot about magnets, electromagnets and electricity in general. In this article, you will learn what makes electric motors tick.       	 
		  
	 

	 
 
		 
	 
 


  
	 
		 
			 
	
		
			
	 
		VIDEO: Check out revealing videos of  electronics deconstructed  and  6 fundamental VOIP videos. >> 	 
 
		 
	 
 

  
	 
		 
			 
	 
		 Next Page 
	 
 
		 
	 
 

  

  

  
	 
		 
			 
	 
		  
	 
 
 
	 
		 

 
  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		 

 
	 
	 
		 

 
	 
	 
		 

 
	 
 
		 
	 
 



  
	 
		 
			 Popular Tech Topics 		 
		 
			 
	 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		  The Ultimate Computer History Quiz  	 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		  Top 5 Myths About the Internet  	 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		  How to Connect Your Computer to Your TV  	 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		  How Capacitors Work  	 
 
	 
	 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		  How Cloud Computing Works  	 
 
	 
 
 
	 
		 Take a look at Computer Videos 	 
 
		 
	 
 
  
	 
		 
			 You Might Also Like 		 
		 
			 
	 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 How Electronic Ink Works  Electronic ink promises to be an amazing, breakthrough technology that we will all be using in five years -- it will completely change books and newspapers.  Learn all about it. 	 
 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Electronics Puzzles  If you've mastered your electronics, try your hand at these electronics puzzles for a fun, new way to look at your gadgets. 	 
 
		 
	 
	 
		 
  
	 
		 
			 Popular Articles 		 
		 
			 
	  How Rock Band Works  
	  How Chess Computers Work  
	  How to Add RAM to Your Desktop  
 
		 
	 
 
			 
  
			 
		 
	 
 
		 
	 
 

  
	 
		 
			 Inside this Article 
 
	 
		 
			  Introduction to How Electric Motors Work  
			  Inside an Electric Motor  
			  Toy Motor  
			  More Motor Parts  
			  Electromagnets and Motors  
		 
	 
	 
		 
		  Armature, Commutator and Brushes  
		  Putting It All Together  
		  Motors Everywhere!  
		  Lots More Information  
		  See all Solid State Electronics articles  
		 
	 
 
		 
	 
 

  
	 
		 
			 
	 
		  

	 
 
		 
	 
 

  
	 
		 
			 
	 
		 Next Page 
	 
 
		 
	 
 



				 
				 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
	 
		 
			 Popular Tech Videos 		 
		 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 
	 
		 Cell Phone Tricks 
	 
	 
		 Electronics Deconstructed 
	 
	 
		 Ultimate Computer Hardware 
	 
	 
		 How It's Made 
	 
	 
		 Its All Geek To Me 
	 
	 
		 See more» 
	 
 

	 
 
		 
	 
 
  
	 
		 
			 New HSW Games 		 
		 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 
	 
		 Storm Tracker 
	 
	 
		 Bike Build Game 
	 
	 
		 Crab Fishing Game 
	 
	 
		 Volcano Explorer 
	 
	 
		 Cannon Challenge 
	 
 

	 
 
		 
	 
 
  
	 
		 
			  
		 
	 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
	 
		 
			 Related Content 		 
		 
			 Prices: Electric Motors 
 
 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Mastercraft Mini Electric Scrubber  MASTERCRAFT MINI ELECTRIC SCRUBBER  Ideal for small areas such as bathroom, kitchen.    This electric scrubber cleans up to 6,000 sq. ft. /hour using an 850 watt vacuum motor and 200 watt brush motor. Two quick release brushes wash and scrub most hard floor surfaces. Features 200 RPM brush speed with 22 lbs of brush pressure. This floor scrubber has a 13 W scrub path and 15 W vacuum path. Solution tank has a 3.5 gallon capacity, recovery tank has a 4 gallon capacity. Removable rotational molded tanks have a drain port for easy maintenance. Independent motor controls for brush and vacuum. Includes 2 quick release squeegees with vacuum shows quickly dry the cleaning path. Molded plastic handle adjusts to operator height and folds for transport or storage. 25L power cord included. Limited Warranty: 1 Year Motor, 5 Year Castings and 90 Days Wear Items.      Click here to see full selections of our Floor Care Machines.  $1455.00   	 
 
 
 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 6-lot Of 3 In One Electric Motor Oil 10145 3 Oz Made By Wd40 3-in-one  World Wide Shipping Item Info: Starting: $ - Buy It Now: $ - MAP: $ - Shipping Weight: #Lbs *Brand New Covered Under Manufacturer Warranty - See  Exception Below - Item Info Here - Usually Have More In Stock - If You Want More Then 1 Just Ask - Message or Call 6-LOT of 3 IN ONE ELECTRIC MOTOR OIL 10145 3 OZ made by WD40 3-in-one SIX (6) 3 oz cans of 3 IN One Electric Motor Oil Keep your moving parts moving 3-IN-ONE Motor Oil created a special blend of high-grade oils thats equiv  $15.60   	 
 
 
 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Semi-Electric Pallet Truck 20.5 X 47 Forks 3300 Lb. Capacity  SEMI-ELECTRIC SELF PROPELLED PALLET TRUCK      This Electric Powered Pallet Truck Combines Self-Propelled Movement With The Ease And Convenience Of A Manual Hydraulic Lift Pump.      Semi-electric pallet jack is designed as an economically priced alternative to expensive fully electric trucks. Unique pallet truck allows easy, powered movement for the transport of skids using a 24V DC drive motor. Electric-hydraulic pallet trucks include variable speed forward/reverse controls (2.8 mph with load), safety belly reverse button, automatic braking when the throttle is released and permanent stop when the handle is positioned within 20 degrees of the vertical or horizontal position. Ergonomic cushioned three position (lift, lower and neutral) pump handle offers a quick-lift design that requires only 5 pumps to achieve maximum lift height for loads under 440 lbs. (10 pumps for greater loads). Skid truck includes entry rollers on the 6-1/4"W forks for easy pallet entry/exit and offers 180 degree turning radius. Powered drive pallet truck features an on-board 110V charger, battery discharge indicator and key switch. Moves easily on 7-1/4" polyurethane drive wheel and tandem 3" polyurethane load rollers. 1 Year Limited Warranty.  $2519.00   	 
 
 
 
		 
	 
 
				 
			 
			 
 
 
 
 
  
	 
		 
			 
	 
		 
			 HOWSTUFFWORKS 
			 
				  Adventure  
				  Auto  
				  Culture  
				  Entertainment  
				  Health  
				  Home & Garden  
				  Lifestyle  
				  Money  
				  Science  
				  Tech  
			 
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 MORE STUFF 
			 
				  Blogs  
				  Games  
				  HSW Tools  
				  RSS  
				  Maps  
				  Podcasts  
				  Quizzes  
				  Newsletters  
				  Video  
			 
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 OUR WEBSITES 
			 
				  Animal Planet  
				  Consumer Guide Auto  
				  Consumer Guide Products  
				  Discovery Channel  
				  Discovery Fit & Health  
				  HSW Brazil  
				  HSW China   
				  Investigation Discovery  
				  Oprah Winfrey Network  
				  Planet Green  
				  Science Channel  
				  TLC  
				  Discovery Education  
				  Store  
			 
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 CUSTOMER SERVICE 
			 
				  Advertising  
				  Contact Us  
				  Help  
			 
			 CORPORATE 
			 
				  About Us  
				  Careers @ Discovery  
				  Privacy Policy  
				  Visitor Agreement  
			 
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 TAKE US WITH YOU 
			 
				  
				  
				  
			 
			 FOLLOW US 
			 
				  
				  
				  
			 
		 
	 
 
		 
	 
 
 © 1998-2011 HowStuffWorks, Inc 
			 
 