GWEC hosted by Rose-Hulman - Home 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
 
 
   
 
   
      
      
   Tuesday, 29 November 2011   
     
        
           
               
              
             
	         
             
             
       		 			 
           
          
     
     
 		 
				 
			 
				   Home    Contact Us    News    Links   			 
		 
		 
		 
 
           
      
   
 
 
   
       
	 Home  
	    
	   
   
 
 
         
       
          
          
          
       
       
          
         		 
					 
				 
					Latest News				 
			 
					 
			 
				 
	 
		 
			Where can I find the Webinars? 
	 
		 
		 
			Books 
	 
		 
		 
			International Wireless Communications Expo  
	 
		 
		 
			Grant Reports 
	 
		 
		 
			GWEC GRANT SUPPORT 
	 
	 			 
		 
		 
		 
          
       
       
          
          
          
       
            
       
          
          
          
       
       
          
         		 
					 
				 
					Popular				 
			 
					 
			 
				 
 	 
		 
			Educator Of The Year Nomination Information 
 	 
 	 	 
		 
			Industry Members Only Access Application 
 	 
 	 	 
		 
			International Wireless Communications Expo  
 	 
 	 	 
		 
			Welcome to GWEC 
 	 
 	 	 
		 
			Grant Reports 
 	 
 	 			 
		 
		 
		 
          
       
       
          
          
          
       
         
 
 
   
      
       
         		 
					 
				 
					Main Menu				 
			 
					 
			 
				
 
   Home   
   News   
   Membership   
   Educator of The Year   
   GWEC Educator Awards   
   Course Grant Reports   
   GWEC Grant Support   
   Links   
   Contact Us   
   Industry Members   
   Education Partners   
   GWEC Modules   
   Wireless World   
   IWCE   
   Books   
   LinkedIn   
   Site FAQs   
   Search   
 			 
		 
		 
				 
				 
			 
							 
		 
		 
				 
					 
				 
					Login Form				 
			 
					 
			 
					 
	
	 
	 
		 
			 
				Username			 
			 
			 
			 
			 
				Password			 
			 
			 
			 
			 
			 
				Remember me			 
			 
			 
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 
				Lost Password? 
		 
	 
		 
	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
				 
		 
		 
				 
					 
				 
					Syndicate				 
			 
					 
			 
				 
			 
			 
				 
		 
				 
			 
				 
		 
		 			 
		 
		 
		                  				 
			 
								 
					GWEC GRANT SUPPORT									 
							 
			 
			
		 
				 
			 
				   GWEC awarded a Course Grant to Dr. Samuel A. Afuwape and Dr. Peilin Fu of the National University at San Diego, California to upgrade their integrated wireless communication electronics laboratory devices and enhance the accelerated learning courses in Master's program in Wireless Communications.     GWEC awarded a Course Grant to Dr. Bruce A Black of Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology at Terre Haute, Indiana to upgrade the laboratory experience of the students in ECE310 Communication Systems.   			 
		 
					 
				 
					Last Updated ( Thursday, 08 October 2009 )
				 
			 
					 

		 

		        			 
			 
								 
					Welcome to GWEC									 
							 
			 
			
		 
				 
			 
				 Global Wireless Education Consortium (GWEC)  GWEC is focused on expanding wireless technology curriculum in academic institutions worldwide. Many companies and colleges and universities develop the curriculum together, and only ONCE. That material is then shared among all GWEC members. The intent is to work more efficiently by eliminating duplication of effort and dollars spent.  "GWEC helps to equip educators and trainers who, in turn, provide students with the core knowledge, language and practical skills necessary for them to excel in generic wireless work environments," says GWEC former executive director Susan Sauer Sloan. "GWEC is a tried and true model for successful relations between industry and education."   The ubiquity of wireless devices and new wireless applications is the result of unprecedented growth in the wireless industry. To meet current and future product and service demands, it is imperative that we grow the wireless workforce so that companies have a pool of highly qualified individuals to employ and students graduate with a skill set and knowledge base that is current and fully recognized by the wireless industry. Herein lies the mission of GWEC.  			 
		 
					 
				 
					Last Updated ( Monday, 01 March 2010 )
				 
			 
					 

		 

		  			 
			 
								 
					GWEC Modules									 
							 
			 
			
		 
				 
			 
				  Propagation Basics     A new GWEC module on Propagation Basics has been added. This module applies to Area 1 of the IEEE Communication Societies’ Wireless Communication Engineering Technologies (WCET) areas of expertise: RF Engineering, Propagation, and Antennas. It is intended as an introduction to propagation for individuals with a technical background who wish to extend their expertise in radio wave propagation, or as a review for engineers practicing in wireless areas. This module is intended to be the first in a series of modules on propagation. The module discusses three topics: propagation in free space, propagation over a flat Earth, and knife-edge diffraction. These are simplified “textbook” propagation models that will be extended in subsequent modules to more practical models. The module runs about 40 minutes. It contains an example along with each of the three topics, and references at the end. 			 
		 
					 
				 
					Last Updated ( Monday, 01 March 2010 )
				 
			 
							 
					 
						 
							Read more... 
					 
				 
						 

		 

		       
         		 
					 
				 
					Polls				 
			 
					 
			 
							 
		 
		 
				 
					 
				 
					Who's Online				 
			 
					 
			 
							 
		 
		 
		        
      
   
 
 
   
      
   
   
     		 
				 
			 
				  
  
			 
		 
		 
		  
	© 2011 GWEC hosted by Rose-Hulman 

 
	 
  Get The Best Free Joomla Templates at www.joomla-templates.com