NASA - 
About NASA Education
   


  


                                                                       

 
        
	 
		  
		 
		           
 			 
			    
			       
				 There's a problem with your browser or settings.
                                                                 
			       
			      
			             Your browser or your browser's settings are not supported. To get the 						   best experience possible, please download a compatible browser. If you 						   know your browser is up to date, you should check to ensure that 
                                                                   javascript is enabled.
 			             
			      
 		              › Learn How  
			     
			 
		           
		 
		  
	 
         
 

       Follow this link to skip to the main content      NASA - National Aeronautics and Space Administration                      NASA Home       >     Education       >    About NASA Education              Send    Follow this link to Share This Page    Share           
 
  







 
 Online Student Application 
 
  
 Eligible students can access a portfolio of NASA internship, fellowship and scholarship opportunities through a single portal and a single application.      >  View site   ?     
 
 























 
 EXPRESS E-mail Signup 
 
  
 Sign up and receive announcements about NASA's education programs, activities and events. 
 
›  Subscribe 
 
 
 























 
 Comments and Questions 
 
  
 Send a comment or ask a question about the NASA Education Web Site. 
 
›  Find out more 
 
 
 























 
 President Launches Campaign 
 
  
 President Obama has launched an "Educate to Innovate" campaign to improve the participation and performance of America's students in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, or STEM. 
 
›  Read More ? 
 
 
 








 
 White House Blog 
 
 Administrator Bolden's Post 
 
›  View ? 
 
 
 








  
 

            
 
  
 
 About NASA's Education Program 
 
  
 
 NASA’s journeys into air and space have deepened humankind’s understanding of the universe, advanced technology breakthroughs, enhanced air travel safety and security, and expanded the frontiers of scientific research. These accomplishments share a common genesis: education. As the United States begins the second century of flight, the Nation must maintain its commitment to excellence in science, technology, engineering and mathematics education to ensure that the next generation of Americans can accept the full measure of their roles and responsibilities in shaping the future. NASA will continue the Agency’s tradition of investing in the Nation’s education programs and supporting the country’s educators who play a key role in preparing, inspiring, exciting, encouraging, and nurturing the young minds of today who will be the workforce of tomorrow.    In 2006 and beyond, NASA will continue to pursue three major education goals:   -- Strengthening NASA and the Nation's future workforce   -- Attracting and retaining students in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, or STEM, disciplines   -- Engaging Americans in NASA's mission 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

 

  
 
  
 
 Education Leadership 
 
  
 
           Leland D. Melvin is NASA's associate administrator for education.    › Read more    › View Leland Melvin's Biography    › In Their Own Words: Leland Melvin Video      You can follow Leland Melvin on Twitter and his blog as he shares insight about NASA Education.    › Twitter at@Astro_Flow?    › NASA Blog: Read and Comment   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

 

  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   NASA has refined its approach for the Summer of Innovation in 2011 to facilitate the alignment of summer and extended learning programming with the formal education community by aligning summer content offerings with the local needs of schools and providing sustained professional development to certified educators in support of more effective content delivery.    This solicitation-driven project supports student interest in STEM by strengthening the capacity of community- and school-based organizations that inspire and engage middle school students in STEM content during the summer. SoI then continues to support follow-on and extended learning efforts designed to keep students involved in NASA-themed STEM activities during the academic year.     › Go to website    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

 

  
 
  
 
 Ideas and/or Suggestions 
 
  
 
 The White House issued an unprecedented requirement for federal agencies to immediately implement actions related to transparency, participation and collaboration. NASA’s Office of Education is taking the next step to get involved with the Agency’s commitment to supporting this Open Government Directive. To learn more, we invite you to explore more about NASA and what we do. We also hope you give us feedback and help shape the future of the Agency.     > Find out more  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

 

    
 
  
 
 Center Education Offices 
 
  
 
  › Ames Research Center     › Dryden Flight Research Center      › Glenn Research Center      › Goddard Space Flight Center      › Jet Propulsion Laboratory      › Johnson Space Center     › Kennedy Space Center     › Langley Research Center      › Marshall Space Flight Center      › Stennis Space Center    
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

 

    
 
  
 
 Mission Directorates 
 
  
 
  › Aeronautics Research     › Human Exploration and Operations     › Science    
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

 

      
 
  
 
 Announcements 
 
 


 
  
  NASA Expands Its Education Portfolio With Digital Badging  
 NASA's efforts to promote interest in science, technology, engineering and mathematics education took a giant leap forward this week at a digital learning badges event. 

 



 
  
  NASA Partnership Announcement  
 NASA seeks unfunded collaborations with organizations to enhance its ability to achieve its strategic goals, outcomes, and objectives as they relate to education. 

 



 

 Women@NASA Website 
 The Women@NASA website was developed to encourage more young women to pursue careers in mathematics, science and technology.  › Women@NASA Website  ?   › A Tribute to Women at NASA   › Aspire 2 Inspire Website  ?  

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

 

  
 
  
 
 Education News 
 
 










 
 11.23.11 
  NASA Hosts Second Annual Education Stakeholders' Summit  

 











 
 11.22.11 
  NASA Invites Public To Learn And See Scientists In Action Online  

 











 
 11.21.11 
  Smithsonian Channel To Air Special "Arthur Christmas" Segment Featuring NASA Spinoff Technology  

 
 
 View Archives 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 

  
 
  
 
 Related Links 
 
 










 
  Careers at NASA  
 Review job listings, post a resume and even apply for a NASA job online. 

 











 
  Business Opportunities  
 Find services related to NASA contracts, Small Business Programs, partnerships and submitting an idea or proposal to NASA. 

 











 
  Research Opportunities  
 NASA offices and field centers offer a wide variety of opportunities for researchers. 

 











 
  Education Calendar  
 Check the Education Calendar to discover how educators and students can interact with NASA. 

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

 

  
 
  
 
 Education Program Areas 
 
 


 
  
  Elementary and Secondary Education  

 



 
  
  Higher Education  

 



 
  
  Minority University Research and Education  

 



 
  
  Informal Education  

 



 
  
  Education Technology and Products  

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

 

        