Creative Commons — Attribution 3.0 Unported
  — CC BY 3.0 

     

     

     
    
     
     

    

     
      

      
      
      

      

      

      

    
   

   

    
  
  


     

       
         
          
         
         
           
            Creative Commons
           
         
         Creative Commons License Deed 

         
           
  Attribution 3.0 Unported
  (CC BY 3.0)
 
         
       

       
         
            
              
             
               Disclaimer 
              
                 
                   
The Commons Deed is not a license. It is simply a handy reference for understanding the Legal Code (the full license) — it is a human-readable expression of some of its key terms. Think of it as the user-friendly interface to the Legal Code beneath. This Deed itself has no legal value, and its contents do not appear in the actual license.
 

 
Creative Commons is not a law firm and does not provide legal services. Distributing of, displaying of, or linking to this Commons Deed does not create an attorney-client relationship.
 
                 
              
             
  
             
              
                 
                  This is a human-readable summary of the  Legal Code (the full license) .
                 
              
  
               
                 
                  Disclaimer
                 
               
             
          
         

         
          
  
     
       
        
       
     
  

   
    

    

     You are free: 
     
       
        to Share — to copy, distribute and transmit the work
       

      
         
          to Remix — to adapt the work
         
      

      
         
          to make commercial use of the work
         
      
       
        
       
     

   
   
     Under the following conditions: 

     
      
       
           
            Attribution —
            
              
                You must attribute the work in the manner specified by the author or licensor (but not in any way that suggests that they endorse you or your use of the work).
              
            
            
           
  
          
             
              
                Attribute this work:
              
               
               
               
               
               
                
               
             
  
             
               
                What does "Attribute this work" mean?
               
               
                The page you came from contained embedded licensing metadata, including how the creator wishes to be attributed for re-use. You can use the HTML here to cite the work. Doing so will also include metadata on your page so that others can find the original work as well.
               
             
          
         
      
     
   

   
     
      With the understanding that:
     

     
       
        Waiver
        —
        Any of the above conditions can be  waived  if you get permission from the copyright holder.
       

       
        Public Domain
        —
        Where the work or any of its elements is in the  public domain  under applicable law, that status is in no way affected by the license.
       

       
        Other Rights
        —
        In no way are any of the following rights affected by the license:

         
           
            Your fair dealing or  fair use  rights, or other applicable copyright exceptions and limitations;
           

          
             
              The author's  moral  rights;
             
          
          
          

           
            Rights other persons may have either in the work itself or in how the work is used, such as  publicity  or privacy rights.
           
         
       

       
        Notice
        —
        For any reuse or distribution, you must make clear to others the license terms of this work. The best way to do this is with a link to this web page.
       
     

    

     
       
        What does "conditions can be waived" mean?
       
       
         
          CC licenses anticipate that a licensor may want to
		waive compliance with a specific condition, such as
		attribution.
         
         
           Learn more .
         
       
     

     
       
        What does "Public Domain" mean?
       
       
         
          A work is in the public domain when it is free for use by anyone for any purpose without restriction under copyright.
         

         
           Learn more . 
       

     

     
       
        What does "Fair use" mean?
       
       
         
          All jurisdictions
              allow some limited uses of copyrighted material without
              permission.  CC licenses do not affect the rights of
              users under those copyright limitations and exceptions,
              such as fair use and fair dealing where applicable.
         

         
           Learn more . 
       
     

     
       
        What are "Moral Rights"?
       
       
         
          In addition to the right of licensors to request removal of their name from the work when used in a derivative or collective they don't like, copyright laws in most jurisdictions around the world (with the notable exception of the US except in very limited circumstances) grant creators "moral rights" which may provide some redress if a derivative work represents a "derogatory treatment" of the licensor's work.
         

         
           Learn more .
         

       
     

     
       
        What are "Publicity Rights"?
       
       
         
          Publicity
              rights allow individuals to control how their voice,
              image or likeness is used for commercial purposes in
              public.  If a CC-licensed work includes the voice or
              image of anyone other than the licensor, a user of the
              work may need to get permission from those individuals
              before using the work for commercial purposes.
         

         
           Learn more .
         
       
     

   
  

         
       

     
     
       
        
          
             Use this license for your own work. 
          
        
       
       
  
    This page is available in the following languages:
  
   

  
     Armenian 
  
     Belarusian 
  
     Castellano 
  
     Castellano (España) 
  
     Català 
  
     Dansk 
  
     Deutsch 
  
     Eesti 
  
     English 
  
     Esperanto 
  
     français 
  
     hrvatski 
  
     Italiano 
  
     Latviski 
  
     Macedonian 
  
     Magyar 
  
     Nederlands 
  
     Ng??i Vi?t/Ti?ng Vi?t 
  
     Norsk 
  
     polski 
  
     Português 
  
     Português (BR) 
  
     român? 
  
     srpski (latinica) 
  
     Suomeksi 
  
     svenska 
  
     Türkçe 
  
     ?e?tina 
  
     ???????? 
  
     ??????? 
  
     ??????  
  
     ??????? 
  
     ??? 
  
     ??????? 
  
     ?? (??) 
  
     ??? 
  
     ?? (??) 
  
     ???