GolfGearReview.com 
 
 
 

  


  
 

 

 
  
  
  
  
   


 
 
	 
		 
			 NEWS  
		 
			 FORUMS  
		 
			 GOLF CLUBS & EQUIPMENT  
		 
			 GOLF COURSES  
		 
			 PRO SHOP  
		 
			 CONTACT/ADVERTISE  
		 
			 CONTRIBUTE  
	 
 
 

 
   
      Golf Club and Course Reviews by Real Golfers  
   
   

 


 
 
 

    Read Our Golf Club Reviews Before You Buy New Golf Clubs 
       Golf Gear Review is your source for  objective and unbiased golf club and golf equipment reviews ,  golf course reviews ,  golf forums , news and more.  
          Golf Club Reviews 
        
       
           Drivers  
           Irons  
           Putters  
          
          
      
		  Fairway Woods  
		  Wedges  
		  Utility Clubs  
        
                Golf Equipment Reviews 
        
         
           Golf Balls  
           Golf Shoes  
           Golf Bags  
          Golf Gloves 
           
         Shafts  
            Grips  
            Golf Apparel  
            Accessories 
           
         
          
          
    Over 1.4 million visitors in the past
  year have visited and contributed to this massive resource for golfers.  Submit your review today  and help others make informed purchasing decisions.  
       
 
 
   
     
     
     
      
   
 
  
 
  Latest Golf Club Reviews & Golf Equipment Reviews by Readers      V-GROOVE Golf Shoe Tool  - I love the unit'but other golfers need to know about these new amazing golf shoes.The right shoe has...no comments,I want to find out more about this new V-Groove Tool Golf Shoe and how do I get a pair.   VGT Golf V-Groove Tool Golf Shoe  - It's has a soft feel, stylish, and comfortable....I would recommend this shoe to all of my friends.   VGT Golf V-Groove Tool Golf Shoe  - Great shoe, very comfortable and stylish. Feels like a walking shoe but gives you the desired perfor...Very colorful, this is perfect for this day in age young golfer and other players. When you wear you    
 
 
   A Conversation with Sean Gregg, Head Designer for Antigua golf apparel  - Unless you\'re playing all your rounds on a public course that allows T-shirts, beat up camo shorts and spiked flip-flops, you probably pay attention to your golf wardrobe. Click to Read Full Review    Review: Footjoy DryJoy Tour shoes  - One of the most important things that you need to play your best golf is to feel totally comfortable while playing this crazy game. And one of the most important things to be totally comfortable is to wear a good pair of shoes that make your feet happy. Click to Read Full Review         Ron McPherson, president and CEO of the Antigua Group, Honored by Entry Into  Arizona Golf Hall of Fame  - Ron McPherson, a former state amateur champion who is now the president and CEO of the Antigua Group Inc., based in Peoria, will be inducted into the Arizona Hall of Fame on November 21, 2011 at Gainey Ranch Golf Club in Scottsdale after the completion of a pro-am scramble tournament. McPherson has been involved with golf on various levels, began playing very young and became a proficient amateur ...(Click Headline For More!) Ron McPherson, president and CEO of the Antigua Group, Honored by Entry Into  Arizona Golf Hall of Fame  -       aboutGolf simulator helps Waterloo teams capture Ontario wins  - aboutGolf congratulates University of Waterloo Men's and Women's  Golf Teams for their notable wins at Ontario University Athletics (OUA) Golf Championships, Mon and Tues., Oct. 17 - 18, at Cataraqui Golf and Country Club in Kingston Ontario
  
 

"The PGA TOUR Simulator has certainly made a difference for our teams," says Dave Hollinger, Coach of University of Waterloo's golf team. "We ...(Click Headline For More!) aboutGolf simulator helps Waterloo teams capture Ontario wins  -   
 

  
  

  


  
 
 



 

 
     Just dew it: Nike's VR PRo wedges tackle club face wetness  - For the recreational, weekend warrior kind of golfer, the guy who cleans his club faces once a month at most, concerns about how a ball comes off the club in wet conditions are very low priorities.
  
But for the more serious golfers and those who play for pay, the game and their equipment has evolved to a point that something as seemingly as trivial as how the morning dew affects the spin, flight and crispness of a shot is a big issue.
  
At Nike Golf, a phone call from the 2009 British Openchampion Stewart Cink led to the effort that resulted in the creation of the Nike VRPro wedges.
  
?Stewart had a morning tee time and found the dew on the grass was creating flyers for him out of the fairways with the new... 


    Why Use Golf Gear Review for your Golf Club Research ? 
         Golf Gear Review provides expert and reader  golf club and golf equipment reviews , including reviews of  drivers ,  fairway woods ,  irons ,  putters ,  golf balls ,  golf shoes ,  apparel ,  training aids ,  golf accessories  and more. Thousands of reviews have been submitted by golfers for golfers. 
           Golf Gear Review has been active since March 2001 and has been providing golf enthusiasts the world over with a treasure trove of  quality review content  and up to date news and articles about golf equipment, clubs and other gear. Periodically, GGR also offers articles and news related to other facets of the game.  
          In 2009, over 1.4 million golf lovers have visited and contributed to this impressive resource for golfers.  Submit your review today  and help others make informed purchasing decisions.  
     

   








 
  
 
 
    
Ê Golf Article Archives Ê
  
  
  
 ? 2010 Pittsburgh Web Foundry