Dive and Discover : Expeditions to the Seafloor 
  


  
  
 
 
 

 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  Home  
  Choose an Expedition 
 
  Exp. 1: Guaymas Basin : 2000   
  Exp. 2: East Pacific Rise : 2000   
  Exp. 3: East Pacific Rise #2 : 2000   
  Exp. 4: Indian Ocean : 2001   
  Exp. 5: Galapagos Islands : 2001   
  Exp. 6: Galapagos Rift : 2002   
  Exp. 7: New England Seamounts : 2003   
  Exp. 8: Juan de Fuca Ridge : 2004   
  Exp. 9: Return to Galapagos Rift : 2005   
  Exp. 10: Antarctica : 2006   
  Exp. 11: Gakkel Ridge, Arctic : 2007   
  Exp. 12: South Atlantic : 2008   
  Exp. 13 : Gulf of Mexico : 2010   
  Exp. 14 : Mediterranean Deep Brines : 2011    
 
  Deeper Discovery  
 
  Deep Hypersaline Anoxic Basins  
  Deep Ocean Circulation   
  Earth’s Anatomy   
  History of the Earth   
  History of Oceanography   
  Hydrothermal Vents   
  Ice Ages   
  Mid Ocean Ridges   
  Ships & Technology  
  Plate Tectonics   
  Polar Regions  
  Underwater Vehicles  
  Hot Topics  
  Interviews  
 
 
  For Teachers   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
      
         
              
         
        
         
            Central
              Indian 
              Ridge 
              Expedition 4: 
              Mar 27-May 1, 2001 
               Mission & Objectives   
                Daily Updates  
                Mail Buoy   
                Scientists & Crew  
                Interviews  
                Hot Topics   
                Slideshows  
                Videos  
                Activities  
                Glossary  
               
                 
                  
                
                  
                
                
               
                               
                
           
                        
               
                 
                   Daily
                    Updates: March  
                 
                 
                   S 
                   M 
                   T 
                   W 
                   T 
                   F 
                   S 
                 
                 
                     
                     
                     
                     
                   1 
                   2 
                   3 
                 
                 
                   4 
                   5 
                   6 
                   7 
                   8 
                   9 
                   10 
                 
                 
                   11 
                   12 
                   13 
                   14 
                   15 
                   16 
                   17 
                 
                 
                   18 
                   19 
                   20 
                   21 
                   22 
                   23 
                   24 
                 
                 
                   25 
                   26 
                    27  
                    28  
                    29  
                    30  
                    31  
                 
                 
                   Daily Updates: April
                    2001  
                 
                 
                   S 
                   M 
                   T 
                   W 
                   T 
                   F 
                   S 
                 
                 
                    1  
                    2  
                    3  
                    4  
                    5  
                    6  
                    7  
                 
                 
                    8  
                    9  
                    10  
                    11  
                    12  
                    13  
                    14  
                 
                 
                    15  
                    16  
                    17  
                    18  
                    19  
                    20  
                    21  
                 
                 
                    22  
                    23  
                    24  
                    25  
                    26  
                    27  
                    28  
                 
                 
                    29  
                    30  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                 
                 
                   Daily Updates: May 2001 
                 
                 
                     
                     
                    1  
                   2 
                   3 
                   4 
                   5 
                 
               
                
			  
			             
Mission:             Dive and Discover’s first expedition of 2001
          will be a 40 day long voyage to explore for hydrothermal vents at the  mid-ocean
          ridge  in
          the central Indian Ocean, one of the most remote places on Earth. Like
          16th century explorers who traveled across the Indian Ocean in search
          of new lands and exotic spices, the scientists and crew on Expedition
          4 will search for new  hydrothermal  vent
          animals and ancient  bacteria    -- missing
          links that can help explain how the fauna living at hydrothermal vents
          in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans are genetically related.
			 Since hydrothermal  black
              smoker    vents
              were first discovered in 1979, on the East Pacific Rise off the
              west coast of Mexico, scientists have discovered that the communities
              of animals along the mid-ocean ridges are very different in the
              Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.               Because deep water in the ocean flows from the Atlantic,
              into the Indian Ocean, and then into the Pacific, the Indian Ocean
              provides the link. Are the same types of vent animals present at
              Atlantic and Pacific vent sites also found at Indian Ocean hydrothermal
              vents? How do these animals and their larvae migrate along the 60,000
              km long global mid-ocean ridge system, and how do they get across
              the deep fractures, or transform faults, that separate segments of
              the ridge crest? Are there specific genetic differences between vent
              animals and the bacteria they eat that can help explain how hydrothermal
              vent fauna first evolved, and how they relate to the evolution of
              early life on Earth?               
               Deeper Discovery  
                  
                  
               Learn more about... 
                 RV Knorr 
                  ROV Jason  
                          Now, a team of biologists, microbiologists, geneticists,
              chemists, and geologists from eight US universities and institutions
              will board the research vessel RV Knorr of the Woods Hole
              Oceanographic Institution (WHOI) in the Seychelles Islands to set
              out to answer these questions. The scientists will work with the
              ship’s crew and technicians from WHOI’s Deep Submergence
              Operations Group (DSOG) who will operate the deep-sea vehicles (including
              the Argo II mapping system, the DSL-120 sonar, and the remotely operated
              vehicle (ROV) Jason) to survey and sample the hydrothermal vents.
              Other equipment, including a CTD water sampling system, will also
              be used to help find hydrothermal vents.               The first site they visit will be near 25°S where
              a team of Japanese scientists using the ROV Kaiko discovered the
              Kairei Hydrothermal Field in August 2000. In addition, Expedition
              #4 will explore for other sites of hydrothermal activity on the Central
              Indian Ridge.              This expedition has taken over five years to plan and
              organize. Join the scientists, technicians and crew of the RV Knorr on
              this historic expedition as they Dive and Discover to explore for
              hydrothermal vents and animals in the far reaches of the Indian Ocean.               [ Back to top ]               Objectives 
    It was less than 25 years ago when oceanographers first discovered hydrothermal
      vents gushing hot, mineral-rich fluids from the seafloor near the Galapagos
      Islands.               To their amazement, they found previously unimagined
              communities of exotic life thriving around these vents. All the materials
              to support life came from chemicals and minerals in the vents - chemosynthesis.
              And the energy to support life came not from the sun, but from heat
              deep within the Earth.               The discovery of hydrothermal vents fundamentally expanded
              our concepts of “life” on our planet. Since then biologists
              have found other hydrothermal vent fields, in the Pacific and also
              in the Atlantic Oceans. They have cataloged more than 500 previously
              unknown organisms living around these vents.               Curiously, scientists have found that animals and microbes
              living around Pacific Ocean vents are different from animals living
              around Atlantic Ocean vents. That got them wondering: What sort of
              animals live around vents in the ocean in between-the Indian Ocean?
              Until now, oceanographers haven’t had many opportunities to
              explore the Indian Ocean seafloor in search of vents and vent life
              using deep submergence vehicles.               Expedition 4 is the first US research expedition launched
              to hunt for hydrothermal vents in the Indian Ocean. Vents are usually
              located on the mid-ocean ridge where tectonic plates move apart and
              molten rock rises from the mantle to create new seafloor. The scientists
              will be exploring the Central Indian Ridge in the middle of the Indian
              Ocean. One site they will visit is the Kairei Hydrothermal Field
              near 25°S discovered in August 2000 by Japanese scientists.               A team of scientists, specializing in various branches
              of oceanography, will search for the vents. Biologists will study
              the life living around them. Geochemists will investigate the chemistry
              of the life-sustaining fluids spewing out of the seafloor. And geologists
              will explore the volcanic rocks and terrain of the surrounding seafloor
              to understand the geological forces that create hydrothermal vents.               What types of animals will we find living around hydrothermal
              vents on this unexplored mid-ocean ridge? Will they be similar to
              animals living around vents in the Pacific and Atlantic, or entirely
              different? How do vent organisms get transported across vast seafloor
              regions along the global mid-ocean ridge system-which encircles the
              planet for nearly 60,000 kilometers undersea, and how do they find
              and settle in different places along the ridge where they can grow?
              These are the major scientific questions that scientists will try
              to answer during Expedition 4.               We shall be working at the Central Indian Ridge near
              20-25°S latitude where the African and Indian tectonic plates
              are separating at about 4.5 centimeters (about 1 inch) per year.
              At the top of the ridge is a deep valley that is about 4-5 kilometers
              wide. It is inside this valley and along its walls that we will hunt
              for hydrothermal vents. How shall we find them?               We will use sensitive instruments called CTDs (stands
              for Conductivity, Temperature, Depth) and MAPRs (Miniature Autonomous
              Plume Recorders) to look for the plumes of slightly warm and particle-rich
              water that rise from hydrothermal vents-just like columns of vapor
              rising from a smokestack. In the dark depths of the oceans, our instruments
              can “see” cloudy water and can detect small telltale
              differences in the temperature of the water.               Once we discover plumes, we will use seafloor mapping
              systems (DSL-120 sonar and Argo-II) to “look” at the
              seafloor and try to locate hydrothermal vents. Geologists will look
              for evidence, including tall structures that might be hydrothermal
              chimneys sticking up above the seafloor, big cracks (fissures) in
              the seafloor where hydrothermal fluids might be exiting, and different
              colored rocks on top of black volcanic lava flows. With Argo-II’s
              video cameras, we will be able to see black, mineral-rich fluids
              spewing out of seafloor structures shaped like spires, which we call
              black smoker chimneys. Or we might see animals, if we are lucky enough
              to find and pass over a vent.               Once we find the vents, we will send the remotely operated
              vehicle (ROV) Jason down to them to map the area and sample the vents,
              microbes and animals. Biologists, chemists and geologists will all
              want to collect samples to find out what lives at the vents, and
              to learn about what their living environment is like.               Several types of biologists will be aboard Expedition
              4. Ecologists will describe the animals and the ways they interact
              with each other in the vent communities. Microbiologists will study
              microbes, which use the harsh chemicals in the vent fluids as sources
              of energy. These include bacteria and Archaea -- single-celled
              organisms that are as genetically different from bacteria as bacteria
              are from trees.               Geneticists will take tissue samples of animals to
              analyze their DNA and RNA. Comparisons of genetic material will tell
              them how Indian Ocean vent animals are related to hydrothermal vent
              fauna elsewhere on the mid-ocean ridge.               Chemists will be studying the chemical composition
              of the hydrothermal fluids. No vent fluids have been sampled in the
              Indian Ocean, so chemists are curious to see if Indian Ocean vent
              fluids are similar or distinctive to those from other parts of the
              mid-ocean ridge. Different bacteria use different chemicals, so knowing
              what chemicals are present helps biologists understand why certain
              animals may be present or absent at the vents.               Much of the geologic data we collect will be analyzed
              on board to map the vent sites and decide where to sample. The biologists
              and chemists will be working on the samples as soon as they come
              on board the ship, and they will also be taking many of the samples
              back to their labs on shore for more detailed analyses.               Each day will bring new samples, new discoveries and
              new ideas about how hydrothermal vents in the Indian Ocean fit into
              the “big picture” of how the Earth works.              
 [ Back
            to top ] 
                   
         
        
      
   
   
       Mailing List  |  Feedback  |  Glossary  |  For Teachers  |  About Us  |  Contact  
© 2010 Dive and Discover™. Dive and Discover™ is a registered trademark of   Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution  
        