Dive and Discover : Deep Hypersaline Anoxic Basins (DHABs) : What are they? 


 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  


  


 
 
   
   
  
 
  Home  
  Choose an Expedition 
 
  Exp. 1: Guaymas Basin : 2000   
  Exp. 2: East Pacific Rise : 2000   
  Exp. 3: East Pacific Rise #2 : 2000   
  Exp. 4: Indian Ocean : 2001   
  Exp. 5: Galapagos Islands : 2001   
  Exp. 6: Galapagos Rift : 2002   
  Exp. 7: New England Seamounts : 2003   
  Exp. 8: Juan de Fuca Ridge : 2004   
  Exp. 9: Return to Galapagos Rift : 2005   
  Exp. 10: Antarctica : 2006   
  Exp. 11 : Gakkel Ridge, Arctic : 2007   
  Exp. 12 : South Atlantic : 2008   
  Exp. 13 : Gulf of Mexico : 2010   
  Exp. 14 : Mediterranean Deep Brines : 2011   

  
 
  Dive into Deeper Discovery  
 
  Deep Hypersaline Anoxic Basins  
  Deep Ocean Circulation   
  Earth’s Anatomy  
  History of the Earth  
  History of Oceanography  
  Hydrothermal Vents  
  Ice Ages  
  Mid Ocean Ridges   
  Plate Tectonics  
  Polar Regions  
  Ships and Technology  
  Underwater Vehicles  
  Hot Topics  
  Interviews  
 
 
  For Teachers   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
      

 
 
 
  What are DHABs?  
  Why Study DHABs?  
  The Halocline  
  Geology of DHABs  
  Life in DHABs  
      
  What are DHABs? 
    
Click to enlarge 
  Deep Hypersaline Anoxic Basins, or DHABs, are lakes of ultra-salty, no-oxygen water more than a mile below the surface of the ocean. They are some of the most extreme environments on Earth—and yet, life thrives there. DHABs are home to complex communities of microbes that have adapted to their hostile habitat and contribute to the global cycles of carbon, nitrogen, and other key elements. 
 DHABs are very new to science. The first ones were found in the 1980s, and scientists are still discovering DHABs that have never been observed before. DHABs occur in many of the world’s oceans, including the eastern Mediterranean Sea, the Gulf of Mexico, and the Red Sea.  
 The name “DHABs”—Deep Hypersaline Anoxic Basins—tells us a lot about these features of the ocean.  

 DHABs are basins—depressions, valleys, or irregular bowl-shaped features in the seafloor. They range from a few hundred meters to several kilometers across, and from 10 meters to 500 meters deeper than the surrounding seafloor.  
    
 DHABs are deep—at least 2 kilometers below the surface of the sea, and often much deeper. One consequence of being so deep is that the basins receive no light from the sun, so organisms that live there cannot use photosynthesis. Primary producers—the organisms that form the base of the food chain—rely on chemosynthesis instead. Through chemosynthesis, the primary producers use energy stored in inorganic compounds to produce sugars. [See  Hot Topic on Chemosynthesis ] 
 Additionally, since they are so deep, the pressure in DHABs is very high. Organisms living in the Discovery and Urania Basins of the eastern Mediterranean, for example, must be able to withstand pressure that is about 350 times higher than at the surface. That can cause problems for scientists trying to bring the organisms to the surface for study. Many of the organisms adapted to such high pressure do not survive the journey to the sea surface where pressures are much lower. 
 DHABs are hypersaline, which means super-salty—up to 10 times saltier than normal seawater. This makes the water in the basin very dense, which keeps it from mixing with the normal seawater above it.  
 Different DHABs have different concentrations of salt, and may even have different kinds of salt. Some have mostly sodium chloride (NaCl), which is what we use as table salt. Others have a high concentration of magnesium chloride, MgCl 2 . This is important because different salts cause different problems for living cells. In general, cells cope better with high sodium than they do with high magnesium.  
 
 
 Chemistry of DHAB brines 
 
 
 Concentration (Millimolar) 
 Discovery Basin 
 Urania Basin 
 Normal seawater 
 
 
 Salt ions  
   
   
   
 
 
 Sodium (Na + )  
 68   
 3503 
 528 
 
 
 Magnesium (Mg 2+ ) 
 4995 
 316 
 60 
 
 
 Chloride (Cl - )  
 9491 
 3729 
 616 
 
 
 Sulfate (SO 4  2- ) 
 96 
 107 
 32 
 
 
 Toxic compounds 
   
   
   
 
 
 Hydrogen sulfide (HS - )  
 0.7  
 16 
 2.6 x 10 -6  (0.0000026) 
 
 
 Methane (CH 4 )  
 0.03 
 5.6 
 1.5 x 10 -6  (0.0000015) 
 
 
   
 DHABs are anoxic, which means they do not contain dissolved oxygen (O 2 ) that organisms can use for respiration. Organisms that live here are anaerobes, running their metabolism without dissolved oxygen. Some of them rely on molecules such as nitrate for respiration, and some get their carbon from gases like carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) and methane (CH 4 ) instead of eating other organisms or particles of organic matter. Many anaerobes will die if they are exposed to even a little bit of oxygen. This can be a problem when researchers try to bring the organisms up to the surface to study them. 
 Other Aspects 
 
 Many DHABs also contain toxic chemicals such as sulfides or methane, which are produced by geothermal activity or by microbes living in the basins. For example, bacteria that obtain their energy for living by using sulfates instead of oxygen (as an electron acceptor) create sulfide as a by-product. Sulfide is toxic for many forms of life, including most bacteria. But some bacteria and archaea have evolved to be able to use these substances in their metabolism. 
 A mud volcano on the seafloor.
(Institute for Exploration) 
 Some DHABs contain salt domes, big mounds of hardened salt. These may  contribute salt to the DHAB brine. In some DHABs, methane and other  gases collect in reservoirs beneath  the seafloor. The gases can  percolate upward, pushing up domes of sediment at the seafloor that are  called mud volcanoes. The gases can burst through the soft sediments,  creating "mini-eruptions" of wispy columns of sediment-filled water.  

   
   
 

 
       Mailing List  |  Feedback    |  Glossary  |  For Teachers  |  About Us    |  Contact  
          © 2005 Dive and Discover
          is a registered trademark of  Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution  
          
           
		 
   
   
    
          