Dive and Discover : Teachers 


 
  
  

  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  Home  
  Choose an Expedition 
 
  Exp. 1: Guaymas Basin : 2000   
  Exp. 2: East Pacific Rise : 2000   
  Exp. 3: East Pacific Rise #2 : 2000   
  Exp. 4: Indian Ocean : 2001   
  Exp. 5: Galapagos Islands : 2001   
  Exp. 6: Galapagos Rift : 2002   
  Exp. 7: New England Seamounts : 2003   
  Exp. 8: Juan de Fuca Ridge : 2004   
  Exp. 9: Return to Galapagos Rift : 2005   
  Exp. 10 : Antarctica : 2006   
  Exp. 11 : Gakkel Ridge, Arctic : 2007  
  Exp. 12 : South Atlantic : 2008  
  Exp. 13 : Gulf of Mexico : 2010   
  Exp. 14 : Mediterranean Deep Brines : 2011    
 
  Dive into Deeper Discovery  
 
  Deep Hypersaline Anoxic Basins  
  Deep Ocean Circulation   
  EarthÕs Anatomy   
  History of the Earth   
  History of Oceanography   
  Hydrothermal Vents   
  Ice Ages   
  Mid Ocean Ridges   
  Oceanographic Tools   
  Plate Tectonics   
  Polar Regions  
  Underwater Vehicles  
  Hot Topics   
  Interviews   
 
 
  For Teachers   
 
 

  
  
 
 
 
 
Ê
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
For Teachers 
               
                 NEW!  Collection of expedition classroom activities  
    
  
Click  HERE  to
                    learn all about the discovery of hydrothermal vents made
    27 years ago. 
 External Resources 
 
  
NSF's RIDGE 2000 program has activities, lessons, and resources.  Click here  to go to their site.  
                      
                   Click here  for Aliens of the Deep Educator's guide
                (pdf) 
                    
                   Teachers: Scholastic Home                    
                    
NOAA's Ocean Explorer has developed lesson plans for students from grades 5-12.   
Click here  to go to their site.  

 
               You can use Dive and Discover as a resource for: 
               
                 Extensions of existing lessons 
                 Homework assignments 
                 An introduction to a science unit 
                 A class project 
                 One lesson 
                 Multiple lessons during science unit 
               
               With Dive and Discover, your students are at the frontline of
                scientific inquiry as they join scientistsÑgeologists, chemists and biologistsÑwho
              are exploring the seafloor and making amazing new deep-sea discoveries.
              Daily updates, photos, videos and email correspondence with scientists
              from these research vessels allow your students to follow the progress
              of the scientific missions and find out about life on the floating
              laboratories at sea.  
               Strategies for Incorporating Dive and Discover in the
              Classroom 
               With the aid of educators involved in previous Dive and Discover
                expeditions, we have created a list of suggested strategies for
                use in the classroom. It's up to you to determine which strategies
                best fit your curriculum and identifies with your students' needs! 
               Hands-On Exploration - Classroom Activities 
               
                 Provide deeper understanding of processes
                  and technologies used during scientific research. [see  Activities                   from Expedition 12 for example] 
               Provide real world connections to
                    experiments performed by scientists on the expeditions. 
               
               Historical Connections 
               
                 Explore past scientific findings and
                    how they have led to current research expeditions. [See Deeper
                    Discovery's Ò History
                    of Oceanography Ó] 
                 Explore the evolution of research
                    technology and scientific instruments. [ Visit
                    Deeper Discovery's Oceanographic Tools È ] 
               
               Data Collection and Analysis 
               
                 Introduce students to some of the
                    latest methods of data collection. 
                 Examine the procedures used in analyzing
                    data. 
               
               Scientific Inquiry 
               
                 Explore the "why" and "how" scientists
                  develop scientific research models. 
                 Allow students to experience the processes
                    of questioning and hypothesizing. 
                 Communicate with and question the
                    scientists as they are making discoveries. [See  Mail
                  Buoy                   from Expedition 13 for example] 
 
               Technology 
               Visit Deeper Discovery's Oceanographic Tools È   
               
                 Experience the latest research tools and cutting edge technology
                  used by researchers. 
                 Observe the tools and instruments
                    in action as researchers gather data and explore the ocean
                  depths. 
                 Uncover the science and engineering
                    used to develop new research equipment. 
                 Utilize Dive and Discover web site
                    as a resource and technology tool 
               
               Problem Solving 
               
                 Experience the challenges encountered
                  during scientific investigations and how scientists must redirect
                  and develop new procedures to continue research. 
                 
               
             Ideas for Classroom Use  
               
                 Use Dive and Discover research findings as topics for
                  written reports. 
                 Create a worksheet of "daily
                  questions" that requires students to search the web site
                  and review research updates. 
                 Create a time line of oceanographic
                    research/discoveries. 
               
                 Have students to create a journal
                    or log that summarizes research and technologies used each
                  day. 
                 Divide the class into groups and have
                    each follow specific aspects of the cruiseÑvent life research,
                    submersible dives, lava flow, plate tectonics, etc. and have
                    each generate reports for the class. 
               
               Check the web site daily or once a week and have students: 
               
                 Create a log that lists the day's
                    scientific findings and equipment used for the day's research. 
                 Summarize updates from each day in
                    a Dive and Discover journal. 
                 List and define vocabulary terms. 
                 Assign students to daily updates and
                    require a 3-5 minute oral report to the rest of the class. 
                 Have students make a 3-D model of
                    a hydrothermal vent, using modeling clay or some other medium,
                    and label the parts. 
               
              
  
 
 
 
   Mailing List  |  Feedback  |  Glossary  |  For Teachers  |  About Us  |  Contact  
© 2010 Dive and Discoverª. Dive and Discoverª is a registered trademark of  Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution  
  
 Ê 
 
 
 
 
 Ê