Dive and Discover : Expedition 8 

  
  
 
 
 



  
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  Home  
  Choose an Expedition 
 
  Exp. 1: Guaymas Basin : 2000   
  Exp. 2: East Pacific Rise : 2000   
  Exp. 3: East Pacific Rise #2 : 2000   
  Exp. 4: Indian Ocean : 2001   
  Exp. 5: Galapagos Islands : 2001   
  Exp. 6: Galapagos Rift : 2002   
  Exp. 7: New England Seamounts : 2003   
  Exp. 8: Juan de Fuca Ridge : 2004   
  Exp. 9: Return to Galapagos Rift : 2005   
  Exp. 10: Antarctica : 2006   
  Exp. 11: Gakkel Ridge, Arctic : 2007   
  Exp. 12: South Atlantic : 2008   
  Exp. 13 : Gulf of Mexico : 2010   
  Exp. 14 : Mediterranean Deep Brines : 2011    
 
  Deeper Discovery  
 
  Deep Hypersaline Anoxic Basins  
  Deep Ocean Circulation   
  EarthÕs Anatomy   
  History of the Earth   
  History of Oceanography   
  Hydrothermal Vents   
  Ice Ages   
  Mid Ocean Ridges   
  Ships & Technology  
  Plate Tectonics   
  Polar Regions  
  Underwater Vehicles  
  Hot Topics  
  Interviews  
 
 
  For Teachers   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Ê
 
  
 
   
      
         
              
         
        
    Juan de
              Fuca Ridge  
              Expedition 8: 
May 24-Jun 10, 2004 
               Mission & Objectives   
                Daily Updates  
                Mail Buoy   
                Scientists & Crew  
                Interviews  
                Hot Topics   
                Slideshows  
                Videos  
                Activities  
                Glossary  
                
                
               Ê
                
            
             
               Ê 
                
             
                       Mission 
                This spring, join Expedition 8 of Dive and
                Discover as researchers diving in the submersible Alvin explore  hydrothermal  vents
                off the Pacific Northwest coast. During the 17-day expedition
                to the Juan de Fuca Ridge, 200 miles west of Washington state,
                scientists and engineers will deploy new ocean instruments and
                gather samples of fluids and organisms from the vents to learn
                how  microbes  live
            in this high-pressure, super-heated environment.   
               Scientists will focus their research on
                  hydrothermal vents at the Mothra and Main Endeavour Fields,
                  more than a mile beneath the ocean surface. Last year, scientists
                  identified a heat-loving microbe from the Mothra Field that
                  thrived at 250 degrees Fahrenheit (121¡C), a temperature
            that no other life form is known to tolerate. 
             These microscopic creatures may be similar
                to the earliest forms of life on Earth, which also tolerated high
                fluid temperatures, little oxygen, and used iron for metabolism.
                Finding microbes that can survive such extremes increases the possibility
                of life existing on other planets or elsewhere in the universe.  
               
   
    Deeper Discovery  
         
           
            
  The research is part of a new study to develop sensors that are capable of measuring
  and recording chemical, biological, and physical processes directly within deep-sea
  vents. This will help scientists study the extreme conditions under which they
  live and how the microbes' habitat changes over time.  
   
  Researchers will also clean up the Main Endeavour Field, part of a marine protected
  area in Canada. During the last 10 to 15 years, tether lines, markers, and other
  materials used for navigation and for transport of deep-sea equipment have been
  left at the site. Divers in Alvin will remove these objects to make maneuvering
  in the field and the deployment of experiments easier for pilots and scientists
  in the submersible.  
   
  Funding for this research comes from the W.M. Keck Foundation and the National
  Science Foundation's Ridge 2000 Program. Scientists, engineers, and students
  from the University of Washington and the University of Massachusetts, as well
  as the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, Monterey Bay Aquarium Research
  Institute, and the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration's Pacific
  Marine Environmental Laboratory will be on board the research vessel Atlantis, operated by
  the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.  
               Researchers on Expedition 8 will travel to
                  a long, narrow undersea volcano known as the Endeavour Segment.
                  This unusual volcano is just over 650 feet (200 meters) in
                  height, but its width extends nearly two and one-half miles
                  (4 km) and its length stretches nearly nine miles (15 km).
                  It is part of the Juan de Fuca Ridge, the  mid-ocean
                  ridge  in the northeast Pacific Ocean located about 200
            miles west of Seattle.  
               The central
                    area of this volcano contains five of the planet's most active  hydrothermal  vent
                fields, places where water seeps through cracks in the seafloor
                and is heated as high as 716¡F (380¡C) by hot rock deep
                below the ocean  crust .  
               
  Last summer, scientists from the University of Washington (UW) and the Monterey
  Bay Aquarium Research Institute (MBARI) placed instruments called microbial incubators
  inside the walls of three  black
  smoker  chimneys in the Mothra and Main Endeavour vent fields, two
  of the five vent fields along the Endeavour Segment. Sensors within the instruments
  have measured temperature every 20 minutes during their year-long deployment,
  collecting about 700,000 temperature measurements.  
   
   Microbes  that
  live inside the chimneys are also growing within these incubators. During Expedition
  8, researchers diving in the submersible Alvin will
  recover the instruments and the microbes inside.  
   
"We are excited, but also a bit nervous about getting the instruments back," says
  Deb Kelley, a University of Washington researcher and the chief scientist on
  the expedition. "They are the first instruments of their kind, and this will
  be their first long-term test within these extreme environments."  
   
  Answering big questions 
  
  Investigating the high temperatures that support microorganisms thriving in super-heated,
  seafloor environments helps researchers to answer big questions about life on
  Earth. Their work will aid in determining how microorganisms can live beneath
  the ocean floor, for understanding how and where life might have began and evolved
  on the planet, and will help to explore the possibility of similar life forms
  surviving with little oxygen in extreme environments on other planets in the
  solar system.  
   
  Last year, scientists studying black smoker chimneys collected from the Mothra
  vent field identified microorganisms growing at the highest temperature known
  to maintain life on Earth: 250¡F (121¡C).  
   
"We believe that organisms can grow at much higher temperatures," says Kelley. "On
  this expedition, we want to begin to test this hypothesis."  
   
  Once divers in Alvin retrieve the instruments,
  researchers onboard the support ship RV Atlantis will
  continue to grow the microorganisms to determine how they live in various temperatures
  and pressures, and to study the gases and organic compounds they tolerate. Researchers
  will also examine their genetic makeup, metabolic processes, and what they eat
  to survive. At least one incubator will be redeployed back into the chimney walls
  so that researchers can investigate how long it takes microbes to colonize. They
  want to find out which of the organisms are the first to grow.  
   
  Earthquakes, maps, and cleaning up 
  In addition to investigating life within the chimney walls, scientists will take
  water samples from black smokers in at least three vent fields to see how the
  chemistry of the fluids and gases have changed since a series of undersea  earthquakes  shook
  the area in 1999. Using a special water sampler, they will take fluid samples
  from both high- and low-temperature vents. Scientists hope that these samples
  will help them understand how changes in fluid chemistry may influence changes
  in the microbial communities over time.  
   
  To help scientists visualize the topography, or  bathymetry ,
  of the seafloor around the vents, a sonar system on Alvin will be used
  to make a very detailed map of the surface of the seafloor. Like a road map,
  the image will reveal the location of faults, fissures, and vents within the
  vent fields to help scientists understand how the hydrothermal system formed.  
   
  A few Alvin dives will be spent cleaning up the Main Endeavour vent field.
  This region, located in Canadian waters, is part of a marine protected area,
  similar to an underwater national park. During nearly three decades of research
  at this site, tether lines, markers, and other materials have been left on the
  seafloor. Removing these will make future experiments and navigation in Alvin easier,
  and will keep the area free of debris left by humans. 
             [ Back
          to top ]              
           Ê  
         

      
   
   
       Mailing List  |  Feedback  |  Glossary  |  For Teachers  |  About Us  |  Contact  
© 2010 Dive and Discoverª. Dive and Discoverª is a registered trademark of   Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution  
          
             Ê 
			 
   
   
  Ê