Dive and Discover : Expedition 9 

  
  

  
  
 
 
 



  
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  Home  
  Choose an Expedition 
 
  Exp. 1: Guaymas Basin : 2000   
  Exp. 2: East Pacific Rise : 2000   
  Exp. 3: East Pacific Rise #2 : 2000   
  Exp. 4: Indian Ocean : 2001   
  Exp. 5: Galapagos Islands : 2001   
  Exp. 6: Galapagos Rift : 2002   
  Exp. 7: New England Seamounts : 2003   
  Exp. 8: Juan de Fuca Ridge : 2004   
  Exp. 9: Return to Galapagos Rift : 2005   
  Exp. 10: Antarctica : 2006   
  Exp. 11: Gakkel Ridge, Arctic : 2007   
  Exp. 12: South Atlantic : 2008   
  Exp. 13 : Gulf of Mexico : 2010   
  Exp. 14 : Mediterranean Deep Brines : 2011    
 
  Deeper Discovery  
 
  Deep Hypersaline Anoxic Basins  
  Deep Ocean Circulation   
  Earth’s Anatomy   
  History of the Earth   
  History of Oceanography   
  Hydrothermal Vents   
  Ice Ages   
  Mid Ocean Ridges   
  Ships & Technology  
  Plate Tectonics   
  Polar Regions  
  Underwater Vehicles  
  Hot Topics  
  Interviews  
 
 
  For Teachers   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
      
         
              
         
        
         Return
              to the Galápagos
              Rift  
              Expedition 9: 
              May 20-June 3, 2005  
              Mission & Objectives   
                Daily Updates  
                Mail Buoy   
                Scientists & Crew  
                Interviews  
                Hot Topics   
                Slideshows  
                Videos  
                Activities  
                Glossary  
                 
                
                
                
                
               
                               
                
             
             
                 
                     
                       Print page  
                      Email
                      to friend  
                 
               
           
               
                 Expedition 9 Cruise Dates 
        MAY  
               
               
                 S 
                 M 
                 T 
                 W 
                 T 
                 F 
                 S 
               
               
                 1 
                 2 
                 3 
                 4 
                 5 
                 6 
                 7 
               
               
                 8 
                 9 
                 10 
                 11 
                 12 
                 13 
                 14 
               
               
                 15 
                 16 
                 17 
                 18 
                 19 
                  20  
                  21  
               
               
                  22  
                  23  
                  24  
                  25  
                  26  
                  27  
                  28  
               
               
                  29  
                  30  
                  31  
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                 JUNE 
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                  1  
                  2  
                  3  
                 4 
               
               
                 5 
                 6 
                 7 
                 8 
                 9 
                 10 
                 11 
               
               
                 12 
                 13 
                 14 
                 15 
                 16 
                 17 
                 18 
               
               
                 19 
                 20 
                 21 
                 22 
                 23 
                 24 
                 25 
               
               
                 26 
                 27 
                 28 
                 29 
                 30 
                   
                   
               
                
		               
            Mission 
            Just over a quarter-century ago, a discovery
                on the bottom of the eastern Pacific Ocean forever changed our
                understanding of our planet, and life on it. Thriving at deep-sea
                vents was a community of tubeworms, giant clams, white crabs,
                and other species never before seen by humans. 
            
                 Dive and Discover's Expedition 9 returns to the
                  Galápagos Rift, located on a mid-ocean ridge about 250
                  miles from the Galápagos Islands where  hydrothermal  vents
                  and exotic organisms were first found in 1977.  In 2002,
                  researchers diving in the submersible Alvin discovered
                  that seafloor  lava  had
                  paved over a hydrothermal vent site called Rose Garden, wiping
                  out large communities of tubeworms, mussels, and other animals
                  living there. Rose Garden was gone, but further exploration
                  in Alvin revealed that life still flourished. A few
                  hundred meters away, tiny animals had begun to colonize a new
                  vent field in the aftermath of the volcanic eruption. Researchers
                  named the field Rosebud. 
                 From RV Atlantis, researchers will
                  again use Alvin to see how the animal communities
                  have developed and what chemical, microbial and geological
                  changes have occurred.  They will make detailed maps of
                  the animal distributions, take high-resolution photographs
                  to create photomosaics of the seafloor, sample the animals
                  and lava flows, as well as deploy time-lapse cameras, larval
                  traps, and chemical sensors directly at the vents. They will
                  also search for new animal communities and  black-smoker  vents
                  along still-unexplored areas of the Galápagos Rift. 
                 As part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
                  Administration (NOAA) Ocean Exploration Program, scientists
                  on Expedition 9 will build on knowledge gained from previous
                  expeditions to learn how the Rosebud hydrothermal vent community
                  has changed. 
             
             
              
                
			    Click  HERE  to
      learn all about the discovery of hydrothermal vents made 27 years ago.
                 
                Click  HERE  to
      receive a 25th anniversary CD-ROM of the discovery.
                  
             
           
                 Objectives 
                  Expedition 9 returns to the Galápagos Rift to see how young, deep-sea
vent organisms living on a recently erupted lava flow have grown and changed
since they were discovered in 2002, on Dive and Discover's Expedition 6.  Researchers
aboard the research vessel Atlantis will travel to the mid-ocean rift
valley in the eastern Pacific Ocean, located at 86°W.  
 
Using the human-occupied submersible Alvin, deep-sea cameras, and specialized
chemical and biological sensors, researchers will spend two weeks exploring and
studying the hydrothermal vents. The vent site, named Rosebud for the young community
of animals found living there, is located 2,600 meters (1.6 miles) below the
sea surface. The home of these animal communities is a dark, volcanic undersea
valley about 4 kilometers (2.5 miles) wide.  
 
A nearby site, called Mussel Bed for its massive colonies of mussels, will also
be explored. It has been 15 years since scientists have visited Mussel Bed, and
they are eager to see if—and how—the area has changed.  
 
Understanding survival in the deep sea 
In the 28 years since hydrothermal vents were discovered along mid-ocean ridges,
scientists are still puzzling over how tubeworms, clams, mussels, and other organisms
populate these deep-sea oases. Tim Shank, a biologist at WHOI and the Chief Scientist
of Expedition 9, calls deep sea vents “Earth’s largest chemosynthetic
community,” where inhabitants live without sunlight. Instead they use dissolved
gases in vent fluids as their energy source.  
 
“There’s no other place on the planet like this, yet we know little
about how young organisms living there colonize, assemble, and form new communities,” he
said. So understanding the factors that determine why animal larvae settle there
is a key first step to understanding the bigger picture of how seafloor life
has developed across the wide expanse of the ocean, and throughout time.  
 
Tim was diving in Alvin in 2002 when he observed that a long-studied
hydrothermal vent field called Rose Garden, known for hosting lush communities
of animals, had been paved over by a lava flow. Days later, he was also among
the scientists who identified the new vent field, Rosebud.  
                 
                 
                   Deeper Discovery 
                         
                      
                   Related links from  
WHOI's Oceanus Magazine:  
                   The Evolutionary Puzzle of Seafloor Life   
                   
                   Is Life Thriving Deep Beneath the Seafloor?   
                 
                 Team work for science 
  The changes at hydrothermal vents involve many different, interrelated organisms
  and processes. On Expedition 9, scientists will work as a team to figure out
  how vents and vent life interact and operate.  
   
  Biologists will look at the ways in which the larger animals at the site, called
  macrofauna, have evolved over the past three years.  After collecting and
  trapping samples of seafloor larvae, Tim, Stace Beaulieu and other biologists
  from WHOI will look at the animals’ genetic composition. They will compare
  this with genetic data of adult animals from the site.  
   
  Chemists will use state-of-the-art chemical sensors, developed by scientists
  Bill Seyfried and Kang Ding at the University of Minnesota. Their instruments,
  which will make measurements 24 hours daily for duration of the cruise, will
  assess some of the key chemical properties of the venting fluids to get a clearer
  picture on how vent chemistry influences the larvae’s settlement.  
   
  Microbiologists Naomi Ward and Kevin Penn of The Institute for Genomic Research
  will collect microbe samples from rock surfaces and vent animals, and use genetic
  techniques to identify microbes where vent animals colonize. This information
  will help them understand the role that microbes play in the evolution of hydrothermal
  vents.  
   
  Geologists will collect rocks and make seafloor maps using observations, photographic,
  and bathymetry data collected by Alvin. At night, when Alvin resurfaces
  to charge its batteries, WHOI geologists Dan Fornari, Susan Humphris, and Adam
  Soule will slowly tow a digital deep-sea camera system—the WHOI TowCam—above
  the seafloor to map the extent of lava flows. The information will help them
  to better understand the volcanic and tectonic history of this part of the
  rift valley and how it relates to the hydrothermal venting.   
   
  Each day will bring new samples, new discoveries, and new ideas about how hydrothermal
  vents at the Galápagos Rift have changed since they were first discovered,
  and new insights into how life evolves in these extreme environments on the
  deep-sea floor.  
                 [ Back
          to top ]              
              
         

      
   
   
       Mailing List  |  Feedback  |  Glossary  |  For Teachers  |  About Us  |  Contact  
© 2010 Dive and Discover™. Dive and Discover™ is a registered trademark of   Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution  
          
               
			 
   
   
           