Dive and Discover : Expeditions to the Seafloor 
  
 
 
  
  

  



  

 
 

   
   
  
 
  Home  
  Choose an Expedition 
 
  Exp. 1: Guaymas Basin : 2000   
  Exp. 2: East Pacific Rise : 2000   
  Exp. 3: East Pacific Rise #2 : 2000   
  Exp. 4: Indian Ocean : 2001   
  Exp. 5: Galapagos Islands : 2001   
  Exp. 6: Galapagos Rift : 2002   
  Exp. 7: New England Seamounts : 2003   
  Exp. 8: Juan de Fuca Ridge : 2004   
  Exp. 9: Return to Galapagos Rift : 2005   
  Exp. 10 : Antarctica : 2006   
  Exp. 11 : Gakkel Ridge, Arctic : 2007   
  Exp. 12 : South Atlantic : 2008   
  Exp. 13 : Gulf of Mexico : 2010   
  Exp. 14 : Mediterranean Deep Brines : 2011    
 
  Dive into Deeper Discovery  
 
  Deep Hypersaline Anoxic Basins  
  Deep Ocean Circulation   
  EarthÕs Anatomy  
  History of the Earth  
  History of Oceanography  
  Hydrothermal Vents  
  Ice Ages  
  Mid Ocean Ridges   
  Plate Tectonics  
  Polar Regions  
  Ships and Technology  
  Underwater Vehicles  
  Hot Topics  
  Interviews  
 
 
  For Teachers   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Ê
 
  
   
   
      
       
          
   Hot Topics  
  Hydrothermal Vents  
  Godzilla,
		           Sasquatch, and Homer Simpson: 
The Curious Names of Deep-sea Features  
  Bacteria
		   at Hydrothermal Vents 
  Looking
              for Microbes 
  Biogeography
                of Hydrothermal Vents  
  Seafloor Geology   
  Seafloor
      Gravity  
  Seafloor
                    Magnetics 
  Lava
Flows 
  What
		            Does a Young Submarine Lava Flow Look Like? 
  Hotspots
        & Cool Volcanoes: The New England Seamounts 
  Extreme Creatures  
  Deep
                            Sea Biology 
   Gal‡pagos
                            Animal and Marine Life 
  Seabird
                            Observations in the Western Gal‡pagos Islands 
  Deep-Sea
                            Corals 
  The Watery World of Salps  
 Oceanographic Tools 
  Keeping the ?Big O? Out of Alvin  
  Autonomous Hydrophone Array (AHA)  
  The Hydrothermal Vent Prospecting Team 
  Measuring Temperature At Hydrothermal VentsÑAl Bradley?s Ingenuity 
  Finding Telltale Hydrothermal Plumes With MAPRs 
  The Hawaii MR1 Side-Scan Sonar Mapping System 
  ABE: the Autonomous Benthic Explorer 
  Antarctic Water Wear: Cold-Water Diving and Drysuits  
  History of the Earth  
  How Old is That Volcano? 
  The Gal‡pagos Islands  
  Dating corals, knowing the ocean 
  Going vertical: Gauging ocean overturn rates 
  What's it like to go on a cruise?  
  Life at Palmer Station  
  Deception Island: Fire and Ice, History and Humans  
  To: The Paul Revere Science Club  
  What Is It Like To Go Down In Alvin? 
  Seasickness  
 
 
         Hot Topics
   Hydrothermal Vents 
     Godzilla,
		           Sasquatch, and Homer Simpson:  
The Curious Names of Deep-sea Features  
From Expedition 8: Hydrothermal vent fields and their individual chimneys may
  be places for serious scientific research, but some of their names come straight
  from science fiction.    Learn
  more È   
    Bacteria
		   at Hydrothermal Vents  
From Expedition 4: Small but mighty, bacteria
              live everywhere at hydrothermal vents.  Learn
              more about bacteria È  
  Looking
              for Microbes  
From Expedition 2: Prof.
                Rachel Haymon and Dr. Patricia Holden, from the University of
                California - Santa Barbara, have an idea about how to look for
                microbes in active hydrothermal vent chimneys.  Read
                about their experiment È 
     Biogeography
                of Hydrothermal Vents   
From Expedition 4: Biogeography
                is the study of distribution patterns of organisms and what causes
                those patterns to exist.  Learn
            more È  
 
   Seafloor Geology  
     Seafloor
                    Gravity  
From Expedition 2: Learn about what gravity is
and why using a gravimeter in Alvin can help geophysicists learn
    about the ocean crust.    Learn
    about seafloor gravity È   
     Seafloor
                    Magnetics  
From Expedition 2: Learn about the Earth?s magnetic field and why measuring
it near the seafloor can help geophysicists understand how the ocean crust forms.  Learn
about magnetics È  
   Lava
                    Flows  
From Expedition 5: When a volcano erupts, the molten rock (or magma) that comes
out of the Earth is called lava. Lava is the most common form of material erupted
from volcanoes that form oceanic islands.  Learn
more about Lava Flows  È 
     What
		            Does a Young Submarine Lava Flow Look Like?  
From Expedition 5: As
    we investigate the submarine slopes of Gal‡pagos volcanoes
              we see life that no one has photographed before.Ê Learn
          more about our camera tow survey È  
    Hotspots
	               & Cool Volcanoes: The New England Seamounts  
From Expedition 7: If you drained the water from the ocean
                  basins, some of the most dramatic features you would see
                  are groups or lines of underwater volcanoes called "seamounts."  Learn
        more È  
 
   Extreme Creatures  
   
     Deep
                            Sea Biology  
From Expedition 5: As we investigate the submarine slopes of Gal‡pagos
  volcanoes we see life that no one has photographed before. The creatures that
  live at these depths have adapted to a way of life in one of the world's most
  challenging environments.Ê Learn
  more È  
     Gal‡pagos
                            Animal and Marine Life  
From Expedition 5: The words ?Gal‡pagos Islands? bring to
  mind images of fantastic animals and plants, ranging from dragon-like iguanas
  and comical blue-footed boobies to incredibly slow moving giant tortoises lumbering
  through arid lava fields dotted with cacti.  Learn
  more about the Gal‡pagos? wildlife È  
     Seabird
                            Observations in the Western Gal‡pagos Islands  
From Expedition 5: One of the investigations
  complementing the geologic studies the scientists on board RV Revelle are
  carrying out, is a survey of the seabirds inhabiting the Gal‡pagos.Ê Learn
  more about Gal‡pagos Seabirds È  
     Deep-Sea
                            Corals  
From Expedition
                            7: When most people think of corals, they
                              think big. Big, interconnected structures such
                              as the Great Barrier Reef off Australia, which
                              can be seen from the Space Shuttle. Expedition
                              7 is going after much smaller coral formations
                              that lie deep within the ocean, past the point
                              where light penetrates.  Learn
          more È  
    The Watery World of Salps  
From Expedition 10: Around Antarctica, one species of salp are the second most abundant kind of plankton in the oceans, after krill.  Learn more È   
 Ê 
 
   Oceanographic Tools 
    Keeping
                    the ?Big O? Out of Alvin  
From Expedition 1: Alvin pilot
                    BLee Williams explains the dangers of using electricity in
                    the ocean.  Read
        the article È   
     Autonomous
                    Hydrophone Array (AHA)  
From Expedition 3: Hydrophones ?hear? and
              record sound waves in the ocean.  Learn
          how hydrophones are helping scientists hear in the ocean  È  
   The
                  Hydrothermal Vent Prospecting Team   
From Expedition 4: CTD (Conductivity-Temperature-Depth) sensors are used to
  detect hydrothermal plumes in the deep ocean.  Learn
  more about CTDs È 
     Measuring
                  Temperature At Hydrothermal VentsÑAl Bradley?s Ingenuity   
From Expedition 4: ICLs (Inductively Coupled Links) transmit data through water
without a cable.  Learn more
  about ICLs È 
   Finding
                  Telltale Hydrothermal Plumes With MAPRs   
From Expedition 3: MAPRs (Miniature Autonomous Plume Recorders) are small instruments
that measure ocean pressure and how warm and clear the ocean water is.  Learn
  more about MAPRs È  
    Fiber
                    Optics   
From Expedition 4: Fiber optic technology uses light to
 transmit information.  Learn
           more about how ROV Jason uses Fiber Optics È  
     The
            Hawaii MR1 Side-Scan Sonar Mapping System  
From Expedition 5: The MR1 side-scan sonar is a special type
  of seafloor imaging system that creates maps of seafloor terrain
over wide swaths.  Learn
          more about MR1 È 
    ABE:
                      the Autonomous Benthic Explorer  
From Expedition 6: Because ABE is
                      autonomous, it can stay at the bottom for long periods
                      of time. Traveling slowly, ABE can create a finely
                      textured map of seafloor that covers about 1 by 2 kilometers
                      during one dive.    Learn more
                      È    
 
    Antarctic Water Wear: Cold-Water Diving and Drysuits  
Water conducts heat away from your body 25 times faster than air does, so you cool much more rapidly in water.  Learn more È   
 
 
   History of the Earth 
  How
                    Old is That Volcano?  
From Expedition 5: One
of the most common questions that scientists and nature lovers
ask when they see an interesting rock is: how old is it?  Learn
          more about determine the age of a volcano È  
     The
          Gal‡pagos Islands   
From Expedition 5: The Gal‡pagos is a group of volcanic
          islands, each of the 13 major islands
          is made up of at least one volcano.  Learn
        more about the Gal‡pagos Islands È   
    Dating
		              corals, knowing the ocean  
From Expedition 7: 
Coral skeletons record the age of the coral, as well as the age of the water
in which they grow. Using radioactive decay dating techniques on fossil, scientists
can tease this information apart.  Learn more È  
    Going
		          vertical: Gauging ocean overturn rates  
Water in the ocean has different ages at different depths. Scientists can determine
these ages, and find out how long water takes to circulate through the entire
ocean and then come back to the surface.  Learn
more  È
 

   What's it Like to go on an Oceanographic Cruise?  
    Life at Palmer Station  
From Expedition 10: Palmer Station, on the Western Antarctic Peninsula is the smallest of three research stations the U. S. maintains in Antarctica.  Learn more È   
 
    Deception Island: Fire and Ice, History and Humans  
From Expedition 10: Deception Island is an active volcano. The island is a Òsubmerged caldera,Ó a circle of craggy hills around an almost-enclosed seawater lagoon, known as Port Foster.  Learn more È  
    To:
                    The Paul Revere Science Club  
On February 2, Gary Comer, Bob James, and Alvin pilot
              BLee Williams journeyed to the bottom of the sea. Gary wrote of
              this amazing experience to the members of the The Paul Revere Science
              Club at Paul Revere Elementary School in Chicago, Illinois.  Read
          the email  È  
    What
                    Is It Like To Go Down In Alvin?  
From Expedition 2: So you
        want to dive to the bottom of the ocean in a submarine? Better
        bring your wool hat, because it is cold down there.  Begin
         your dive È  
     Seasickness  
From Expedition 6: It?s a fact of life on ships, but nobody talks
         about it much. Why should they? It?s not a pretty picture. Yep,
         I?m talking about the green scourge,
Neptune?s revenge?seasickness.  Learn
about what causes seasickness È   
 
       
       
           Mailing List  |  Feedback    |  Glossary  |  For Teachers  |
               About Us    |  Contact  
             © 2010 Dive and Discoverª. Dive and Discoverª is a registered trademark of  Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution  
             
  
             Ê 
			 
   
   
  Ê