Dive and Discover : Expedition 14 : Mediterranean Deep Brines : Home 
 

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  





  

 
   
 
 
      
 
  Home  
  Choose an Expedition 
 
  Exp. 1: Guaymas Basin : 2000   
  Exp. 2: East Pacific Rise : 2000     
  Exp. 3: East Pacific Rise #2 : 2000     
  Exp. 4: Indian Ocean : 2001     
  Exp. 5: Galapagos Islands : 2001     
  Exp. 6: Galapagos Rift : 2002    
  Exp. 7: New England Seamounts : 2003     
  Exp. 8: Juan de Fuca Ridge : 2004    
  Exp. 9: Return to Galapagos Rift : 2005     
  Exp. 10 : Antarctica : 2006   
  Exp. 11 : Gakkel Ridge, Arctic : 2007   
  Exp. 12 : South Atlantic : 2008   
  Exp. 13 : Gulf of Mexico : 2010   
  Exp. 14 : Mediterranean Deep Brines : 2011   
 


 
  Dive into Deeper Discovery  
 
  Deep Hypersaline Anoxic Basins  
  Deep Ocean Circulation   
  Earth’s Anatomy   
    History of the Earth   
    History of Oceanography   
    Hydrothermal Vents   
    Ice Ages   
    Mid Ocean Ridges   
    Ships & Technology  
  Plate Tectonics   
  Polar Regions  
  Underwater Vehicles  
  Hot Topics  
  Interviews  
 
 
  For Teachers    
 
 
  
       
 
 
    
   
   
   
      
 
              
         

 
   
Nov. 28 - Dec. 9, 2011 
  Mission  
  Daily Updates  
  Mail Buoy   
  Videos  
  Scientists & Crew  

  Slideshows  
  Activities   
  Glossary    
 
  
 
 
     Print page  
    Email
                      to friend  
 
 
  
  Click to enlarge  
  
 
Microbial ecologist Ginny Edgcomb, Chief Scientist on this cruise, describes the challenges faced by microbes living in DHABs and by the researchers who study them—and how a new sampling device she helped design may overcome some of those obstacles.  
 VIEW VIDEO  » 
  
 
Geobiologist Joan Bernhard talks about a major strategy protists use to survive in DHABs, and how the remotely operated vehicle Jason will help bring back samples of DHAB sediments.  
 VIEW VIDEO  » 

 

Our Mission: Mediterranean Deep Brines 
 Join Expedition 14 this fall as we venture into one of the world’s oldest oceans—the Mediterranean Sea—to look for life in some of the most hostile environments on Earth. 
 Thousands of years ago, the movement of Earth’s crust uncovered ancient buried deposits of salt and exposed them to seawater in several places. The salt began to dissolve into the seawater. Some of this extra-salty water got trapped in depressions on the seafloor and formed  brine     lakes. Because it’s extra-salty, the brine is denser than normal seawater, so it remains on the bottom and doesn’t mix with seawater.  
 Over time, these brine lakes have become even more salty. Now they are up to 10 times saltier than normal seawater, salty enough to kill most forms of life and to rapidly corrode the metal parts on oceanographic equipment. 
 The brine lakes also have no oxygen. Being more than two miles deep, they are totally dark and under pressure about 350 times higher than at the surface. Some are loaded with toxic sulfides. Scientists call them DHABs, which stands for Deep  Hypersaline      Anoxic     Basins. Life on Earth may have begun in similar habitats. 
 On this 15-day cruise, scientists will use the WHOI ROV (remotely operated vehicle) Jason and a brand-new robotic micro-laboratory to look for life in two DHABs, called Discovery Basin and Urania Basin, in waters off the southern coast of Greece. The research team will bring back samples of water and sediments from the DHABs, from the transition zone between normal seawater and the saltier brine, and from normal areas outside the DHABs. They will be looking specifically for  protists    , which are mostly single-celled eukaryotic organisms such as the Amoeba and Paramecium you may have studied in school. Eukaryotes are organisms with nuclei and other membrane-bound  organelles     in their cells. Fungi, plants, and animals (including humans) are eukaryotes, too. 
 Wherever protists are found in these DHABs, the researchers can begin to ask other questions: How do they survive the harsh conditions? Do they use unusual biochemical processes? Have they developed useful   symbiotic     relationships with bacteria? What can these organisms tell us about how life might have begun on Earth, and where we might look for life on other planets? 
 The Briny Deep 
Although humans have been navigating the waters of the Mediterranean for thousands of years, DHABs weren’t discovered there until the 1980s. At first, the DHABs were thought to be too hostile for eukaryotes. Then a few years ago, DNA from protists was found in several brine basins. But a big question remains: Were those protists living in the basins, or did they sink into the DHABs and get “pickled” by the heavy brine? 
 In 2009, the scientists on our cruise found more promising hints that protists are actually living in the DHABs. It’s been hard to find out what’s living in the brine lakes because whenever organisms are collected from such depths, simply bringing them to the surface and exposing them to light, oxygen, and changes in temperature and pressure can affect them so much that it can be impossible to tell what they were like in their natural habitat—or even whether they were alive. 
 On this cruise, the scientists will use   in situ      samplers that for the first time will preserve the organisms and do some of the initial processing that would normally be done in the lab, right where the samples are collected. When the samplers and their precious cargo finally return to the ship, the scientists will know that the cells and the molecules inside them have been preserved as they were at the moment they were collected.  
 
 FROM DEEPER DISCOVERY 
    
    
 RELATED LINKS: 
  HOT TOPICS  
  R/V Atlantis  
  Jason    
   
 CLASSROOM ACTIVITIES 
    
  Density Activity for grades 6-9  
   
    
  Evaporites Activity for grades 1-3  
 
 Objectives   
Working aboard the R/V Atlantis, we will head south from Piraeus, Greece, to our study areas about 100 miles west of the island of Crete. There, the scientists will lower vehicles and sampling devices more than two miles down toward the brine basins at the bottom of the sea. 
 First, the scientists will map their targets by sending the ROV Jason down toward each basin. Jason will carry a CTD-O 2 , an instrument that will allow the researchers to measure salinity, temperature, and oxygen levels at each depth. That will show exactly where the edges of each brine lake are and the depth of the  halocline    . That’s the transition zone between the brine and the normal seawater. During a cruise here two years ago, the researchers found that the halocline on these basins is only 1 to 2 meters (6 feet) thick. So trying to get a sample of water from it will be like you trying to hit the door of your house from 2 miles away. Their aim has to be perfect!  
 To keep Jason out of the corrosive brine, they will position it just above the transition zone, right at the edge of a basin. With luck, the team will be able to see the shimmering halocline through the cameras on Jason or its small companion vehicle, Medea. An operator on the ship, working by remote control, will have Jason reach its long arm down through the halocline to gather sediment from the side of each brine basin and from within the halocline itself. Jason will use special collection devices that will immediately preserve the samples so any organisms they contain will still be intact when they reach the surface. 
 Next, the new robotic micro-lab, SID/ISMS, will be lowered on a cable deep into each brine lake. It will take in large amounts of water—up to 48 samples of 8 liters (2.1 gallons) each at one time—and will filter the water to concentrate any tiny protists living there. Then it will process the samples so they can later be analyzed in several different ways.  
 When the samples return to the ship, the scientists will use a light microscope to get a first glimpse at the organisms, which are among the most resilient forms of life on Earth—some of which may have never been seen before.  
   
   
   
 [ Back
          to top ]  
    
 

  
 
   
       Mailing List  |  Feedback  |  Glossary  |  For Teachers  |  About Us  |  Contact  
© 2010 Dive and Discover™. Dive and Discover™ is a registered trademark of  Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution  
          
       
			 
   
   
           