Home : Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
      
      
     
       
       Please note: You are viewing
     the unstyled version of this website. Either your browser does not support CSS
     (cascading style sheets) or it has been disabled.  Skip
     navigation . 
     
     
        
       Media    |    Jobs   |   Support WHOI   
        
       
        
        
        
            WHOI  WHOI People
             
        
       
       
                  Home    About WHOI    Research    People    Ships & Technology    Education    News & Multimedia     
     
       
                 
              About WHOI 
             WHOI is the world's largest private, nonprofit ocean research, engineering and education organization.   
              » Learn more  
              Support WHOI 

 Your giving makes a difference to science, the planet and society.   

           
              » Learn more  
             » Give online today  
             » Tax-free IRA rollover extended to Dec. 31 
             

           
            
              
        

                
                
               

               
                
               

               
                
               
       
       
       
       
       
        
               Ocean Topics   » Climate & Oceans    » Coastal Science    » Geology & Geophysics    » Hazards    » Ocean Engineering    » Ocean Life    » Ocean Resources    » Polar Research    » Pollution   Most Popular 
              » Oil Spills  
              » Abrupt Climate Change  
      » Red Tide    
        
      
        
              
             Quick Links 
              Oceanus Magazine  
             
              Dive and  Discover  
             
              MIT/WHOI Joint Program  
             
              MBL/WHOI Library  
             
              Facilities & Services  
             
              Human Resources  
             
              Community Housing  
          
             		  
              WHOI Store  
             		  
              Media Resources  
              		  
              Directions & Maps  
              
              WHOI Mobile Site  
            
               
         
         
                   Dive & Discover Expedition 14  Exploring life in Mediterannean deep brines Dive & Discover Expedition 14 is now live, with Day 1 of the trip providing more excitement than than normal. Or perhaps more excitement of a different sort than normal. Read the  Daily Updates  to learn more.    News Release  Statement on the R/V Atlantis Rescue at Sea of 93 Egyptians  On November 25, Atlantis responded to a distress call in the Mediterranean Sea south of Greece and helped rescue 93 from a sinking boat.    Featured Multimedia  Remembering R/V Oceanus  Saying Farewell to the Workhorse of the North Atlantic    Oceanus Magazine  Between the Beach and the Deep Blue Sea  Student explores the dynamic gateway of the shallow inner shelf    Oceanus Magazine  Into the Dark and Ice  First winter voyage to Chukchi and Bering Seas launched. Follow the  cruise blog .    News Release  Long-Term Carbon Storage in Ganges Basin May Portend Global Warming Worsening  Carbon stored in soils may not be as stable as previously thought    

             WHOI Image of the Day         Well Done, Atlantis   

                   Recent WHOI in the News [ more ]     
			Monday, November 28, 2011 
                         Woods Hole ship captain details rescue  
                        Cape Cod Times  
			Friday, November 18, 2011 
                         STEM Education & America's Future  
                        Live Better Magazine  
			Thursday, November 10, 2011 
                         Jellyfish strokes come to life with laser vision  
                        New Scientist  
			Tuesday, November 8, 2011 
                         Science Cafe- Mud and Sand  
                        BBC Radio Wales  



                   
               Around WHOI   Meet the President and Director  Susan K. Avery, Ph.D.     Ocean Science Exhibit Center & Gift Shop  The WHOI Ocean Science Exhibit Center is currently open Tuesday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. WHOI merchandise is available at the Ocean Science Exhibit Center's gift shop and through the  online store .   Weekly Calendar of Events   
                
           Recent Job Announcements
                ?  Winch Pool Manager - Engineer II   ?  Research Assistant II   
           
         
           
 
       
  
  Copyright ©2007  Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, All Rights Reserved. 
Mail: Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, 266 Woods Hole Road, Woods Hole, MA 02543, USA 
E-Contact:  information@whoi.edu ;
media relations:  media@whoi.edu , tel. (508) 548-1400 
 Join our Community  
         
Problems or questions about the site, please contact  webdev@whoi.edu  
  Contact 
 |  Privacy Policy 
 |  Site Map 
 |  Support WHOI Research 
 |  Internal