Dive and Discover : Expeditions to the Seafloor 

  
  
 
 
 
  
  



  
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
  
   
   
  
 
  Home  
  Choose an Expedition 
 
  Exp. 1: Guaymas Basin : 2000   
  Exp. 2: East Pacific Rise : 2000   
  Exp. 3: East Pacific Rise #2 : 2000   
  Exp. 4: Indian Ocean : 2001   
  Exp. 5: Galapagos Islands : 2001   
  Exp. 6: Galapagos Rift : 2002   
  Exp. 7: New England Seamounts : 2003   
  Exp. 8: Juan de Fuca Ridge : 2004   
  Exp. 9: Return to Galapagos Rift : 2005   
  Exp. 10: Antarctica : 2006   
  Exp. 11: Gakkel Ridge, Arctic : 2007   
  Exp. 12: South Atlantic : 2008   
  Exp. 13 : Gulf of Mexico : 2010   
  Exp. 14 : Mediterranean Deep Brines : 2011    
 
  Deeper Discovery  
 
  Deep Hypersaline Anoxic Basins  
  Deep Ocean Circulation   
  Earth’s Anatomy   
  History of the Earth   
  History of Oceanography   
  Hydrothermal Vents   
  Ice Ages   
  Mid Ocean Ridges   
  Ships & Technology  
  Plate Tectonics   
  Polar Regions  
  Underwater Vehicles  
  Hot Topics  
  Interviews  
 
 
  For Teachers   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
      
         
              
         
        
         
            East Pacific
              Rise 
              Expedition 2: 
			  Jan 27–Feb 8, 2000  
               Mission & Objectives  
                Daily Updates  
                Mail Buoy   
                Scientists & Crew  
                Interviews  
              
                Slideshows  
                Videos  
              
                 Glossary  
                 
                
                 
                               
              
            
                
             
                
                 
                       
                       Print page  
                      Email
                      to friend  
                 
               
                 
                   
                     January:
                        Daily Updates  
                   
                   
                     S 
                     M 
                     T 
                     W 
                     T 
                     F 
                     S 
                   
                   
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                     1 
                   
                   
                     2 
                     3 
                     4 
                     5 
                     6 
                     7 
                     8 
                   
                   
                     9 
                     10 
                     11 
                     12 
                     13 
                     14 
                     15 
                   
                   
                     16 
                     17 
                     18 
                     19 
                     20 
                     21 
                     22 
                   
                   
                     23 
                     24 
                     25 
                     26 
                      27  
                      28  
                      29  
                   
                   
                      30  
                      31  
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                   
                   
                     February: Daily Updates  
                 
                   
                       
                       
                      1  
                      2  
                      3  
                      4  
                      5  
                   
                   
                      6  
                      7  
                      8  
                     9 
                     10 
                     11 
                     12 
                   
                   
                     13 
                     14 
                     15 
                     16 
                     17 
                     18 
                     19 
                   
                   
                     20 
                     21 
                     22 
                     23 
                     24 
                     25 
                     26 
                   
                   
                     27 
                     28 
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                   
                 
                  
                 Location map showing the Pacific and
                    Cocos plates and the East Pacific Rise (bold red lines),
                    and the mid-ocean ridge plate boundary where the plates are
                    separating. The black lines that offset the ridge are transform
                faults, places where the plates slide by each other.  
             
                      Mission 
          How Does the Mid-Ocean Ridge Work
              - I  
Join Dive & Discover for a 10 day Alvin diving cruise to the volcanoes
and hydrothermal vents on the deep sea floor in the eastern Pacific Ocean.              
             Dive & Discover’s 2nd voyage takes you
              about 500 miles south of Manzanillo, Mexico to the crest of the
               East Pacific Rise , a volcanic ridge where the crust of the Earth
              is being constantly created.  Seafloor spreading  is separating the
              Pacific  Plate  from the Cocos Plate at a rate of 11 centimeters
              (about 5 inches) every year. Beneath the tropical waters of the
              eastern Pacific, there is a mountain range made up of many active
              volcanoes erupting  lava  that forms the top 500 meters (about 1,640
              feet) of the Earth’s crust. The lava flows have strange and
              wonderful shapes. Some look like they have been squeezed out of
              a tube of toothpaste to form long cylinders with deep grooves in
              them, others form big, cracked pillows of rock that look like overstuffed
              sofas; there are even lava flows that look like ropey swirls of
              black taffy.  
             How did these lavas form? When did they erupt? How
              do they build up to form the ocean  crust  of the Earth? How are
               hydrothermal vents , like the ones studied during Dive & Discover’s
              first cruise to the Guaymas Basin, related to these undersea eruptions
              and lava flows?  
             During Dive & Discover’s Cruise 2, scientists,
              engineers and students from several universities will use Alvin,
              armed with very sensitive instruments, to find out the answers
              to these questions. At night, while Alvin’s batteries
              are charging, they will also tow behind the ship a specialized
              camera sled which has a digital camera to take pictures of the
              volcanic seafloor. This will help them map the seafloor and understand
              how and where lava erupts deep in the ocean and how it builds up
              to form the ocean crust.  
             
               Deeper Discovery 
                  
                  
                   
                          Research at this site on the East Pacific Rise got
              a boost in 1989 when Dr. Dan Fornari from Woods Hole Oceanographic
              Institution (WHOI) and Prof. Rachel Haymon of the University of
              California-Santa Barbara went to the crest of the East Pacific
              Rise between 9°N and 10°N Latitude to map the  mid-ocean
              ridge  crest using a towed camera and sonar system called Argo [ Click
              here to learn more about Argo ]. On that cruise they found many
              hydrothermal vents and evidence for a large  volcanic eruption  that
              covered several miles of the ridge crest with new, pillowy black
              lava. They went back in 1991 to dive at the East Pacific Rise crest
              to sample the hydrothermal vents and lava. What they found shocked
              them! When they dove to the seafloor in Alvin, they realized
              that there was a submarine volcanic eruption going on, and that
              hot, new lava had covered the seafloor, covering some of the hydrothermal
              vents they had seen just 2 years before with the Argo system, even
              cooking some of the tubeworms!  
             Now a team of geologists and geophysicists led by
              Dan Fornari and Jim Cochran of Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory
              are returning to the East Pacific Rise with Alvin to study
              and sample the lava flows and hydrothermal vents. They will be
              using sensitive instruments to measure very small changes in the
              Earth’s gravity and magnetic fields to help them learn about
              the ocean crust and the lava that forms it. Just like a doctor
              using a stethoscope to find out what’s going on inside a
              human body -- medical remote-sensing -- Dan, Jim and their colleagues
              will be using geophysical remote-sensing to study the Earth’s
              ocean crust.  
             Join them as they explore the volcanic seafloor of
              the East Pacific Rise and try to understand what is underneath
              it -- inside the ocean crust, and monitor the biological and chemical
              changes at the hydrothermal vents since the 1991 eruption.  
             Objectives 
                What is Geophysics  
  Geophysics is the study of the Earth using the principles of physics. A geophysicist
  is someone who uses instruments to tell them about the Earth, rather than “seeing” it
  first-hand. These techniques, for example, using the speed of sound in different
  layers of the earth, or the study of Earth’s gravity and magnetic fields,
  help them to understand the internal structure of the planet. By using these
  methods, geophysicists have been able to tell what the “anatomy” of
  the Earth is. Geophysics is one of the most important methods for understanding
  where earthquakes take place and how to help prevent or minimize damage caused
  by them in cities like Los Angeles. Geophysics is also an important tool that
  helps scientists and engineers find oil and gas.  
             Looking into the Earth - Geophysics is the
                Key!  
  How do you see inside the Earth? On land, you can dig a trench to see the layers
  of sediment, look at the side of a cliff to see the layers of rocks and how
  they are folded, or go down into a mine to see the rocks inside the crust.
  At the mid-ocean ridge, looking inside the Earth is much more difficult. First
  of all, there are 2500 meters (8200 feet) of sea water between you and the
  rocks exposed on the seafloor. Alvin allows scientists to go down
  to the seafloor, make observations and sample the rocks, but getting information
  on what is below the seafloor is more difficult - you need different instruments
  and techniques to do that. That’s where geophysics comes in!  
             Objectives  
  Scientists on this cruise will use two different geophysical measurements to
    find out about the upper part of the ocean crust at the East Pacific Rise
    near 9° 37’N Latitude. The scientists are going to use two types
    of electronic instruments- one to measure small variations in the Earth’s
    gravity field and the other to measure small variations in the magnetic field
    along the axis of the East Pacific Rise. They will also be taking thousands
    of digital pictures of the seafloor using Alvin and a towed camera
    sled so that they can make detailed maps of the volcanic terrain and relate
    them to the gravity and magnetics. Together, this information, or data, will
    help them answer questions like these:  
             
               How do seafloor lava flows build up over time to
                  form the ocean crust?  
               Does the lava always erupt in the same place at the
                  ridge axis?  
               When it does erupt, how far does it travel from the
                  fissure or crack where it started?  
               What happens to deep ocean hydrothermal vents when
                  there is a volcanic eruption? 
                          Hypothesis to Test  
  1. The pattern of dikes, or feeders that supply lava to the seafloor from the
    magma chamber underneath the East Pacific Rise axis can be mapped using gravity
    and magnetic data collected near the seafloor with Alvin.  
                
             [ Back to top ]  
              
         


      
   
   
      Mailing List  |  Feedback    |  Glossary  |  For Teachers  |  About Us    |  Contact  
© 2010 Dive and Discover™. Dive and Discover™ is a registered trademark of   Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution               
  
               
			 
   
   
   