Public Health & Prevention - Medscape 
 
 
  
 

 






















 
  
  
  





	
	

	
		
		 
                
                 
                 
                  
			
                 
    		
                
		

		

		

		

	



 



 





 






 
 




 
 













 

 

  News    
	 

	 
	 
	  
	  Public Health Home 
    	 
	  News & Perspectives  
	  Journal Articles  
	  Most Popular  
	  Conference Coverage  
	  	
	  Business of Medicine  
	  Other Specialties  
	  
	 
	 

	 
 

  Reference 
    
 

  Education 
    
 
 



    Public Health & Prevention   
 


 




 












 

 Log In  Register 

 
  




 

  
  
 

					   
						 
							   
							 
							     
								 
 
									  News  
									  Reference  
									  Education  
									  MEDLINE  
								 
								
							 
						 
 
					 
					 

	 
 
		 
 		 
		 
	 
 





  

					 
 
						 
							 Instant Lookup Access over 10,000 topics by title ...or, search within full reference content 
						 
						 
							 Drugs
								 No drug matches 
 
								 
								  
							 Conditions
								 No condition matches 
								 
								  
							 Procedures
 
								 No procedure matches 
								 
								  
						 
					 


 
 
 
  
  

 
 

   




 




 

 

 


	
 







 


  

 
 









 



 
 
  Bioterrorism/Disaster Medicine    Emerging Infectious Diseases    HIV    Immunization    Influenza    Obesity    Substance Abuse/Addiction    More   
 
 








 








 
   
 
           
     
       
           
   
    
   Bucket List: 20 Things to Do Before You "Kick the Bucket"     
 
	 
      It’s so easy to get caught up in the mechanics of daily life, that doctors can forget what will make their life truly meaningful and exciting. Here’s what works for some physicians.    
        November 27, 2011      
     
     
       
           
   
    
   Outbreak of Listeriosis Associated With Cantaloupe, US, 2011     
 
	 
      How serious was the recent 2011 listeriosis outbreak due to contaminated cantaloupe? This new report gives us the data.    
       Morbidity & Mortality Weekly Report,   November 18, 2011      
     
     
       
           
   
    
   Dietary Supplements and Mortality Rates in Women: A Cautionary Tale     
 
			       
			 
      Do the potential benefits from intake of more dietary supplements outweigh the potential risks in well-nourished older women? Or is more not necessarily better? Dr. JoAnn Manson offers her perspective.    
       Medscape Ob/Gyn,   November 15, 2011      
     
     
       
           
   
    
   Vaccination of Health-care Workers Against Influenza     
 
	 
      Although vaccination of health-care workers has been recommended for almost three decades, vaccination within this group remains unacceptably low.    
       Influenza and Other Respiratory Viruses,   November 14, 2011      
     
       
 
  
   
 



 



 



 
 
  
 
  Business of Medicine »  
 
               
		         
           
            
            
          
       
        
    
   Should Gay Doctors Reveal Their Orientation to Patients?    
 
			       
			 
      
           
        
 A religious radio host recently exhorted parents to avoid gay doctors. An ethics expert talks about patients’ right to select their physicians and doctors’ rights to be open about their lives.        
      Medscape Internal Medicine,  November 2011          
         
  			         
           
            
            
          
       
        
    
   Three Challenges That ICD-10 Brings to Doctors    
 
			       
			 
      
           
        
 ICD-10 will have a huge impact on physicians' daily lives and revenue. It's important to make the transition smooth and be ready, or the practice could end up losing significant money when billing.        
      Medscape Internal Medicine,  November 2011          
         
  			         
           
            
            
          
       
        
    
   Doctors: The Truth About What Your Boss Wants From You    
 
	 
      
           
        
 If you want to hold your job, get ahead, and be effective within your organization, you'll need more than clinical skills to succeed. Here's what today's bosses are looking for.        
      Medscape Business of Medicine,  November 2011          
         
  			         
           
            
            
          
       
        
    
   Boosting Profits: How to Increase Staff Efficiency    
 
			       
			 
      
           
        
 Sometimes the wrong staff members are inadvertently doing the wrong things. Hidden office inefficiencies can cost a practice money. Here's how to solve that problem.        
      Medscape Business of Medicine,  November 2011          
         
  			         
           
            
            
          
       
        
    
   End-of-Year Tax Tips for Doctors    
 
	 
      
           
        
 There's still time left for physicians to make personal and business-related tax moves that could save significant money in taxes for this year.        
      Medscape Business of Medicine,  November 2011          
         
  	     
 
 
  
   
    of    
  
 
  
  
 
 







 


  

 
 
 
    
 
 
 


 











 


  




 


 
  Public Health & Prevention News   – From Medscape Medical News, Reuters and more   
 


 
 

 
 



 
 
           
     
       
           
   
    
   Firefighters Hurt More During Training Than Firefighting     
 
	 
      Physical exercise, patient transport, and training sessions have higher rates of injury than firefighting in one fire department.    
       Medscape Medical News,   November 28, 2011      
     
     
       
           
   
    
   Few Psychotropic Drugs Have Established Evidence in Autism     
 
	 
      A systematic review sheds light on the medications that seem to be most effective for treating common symptoms associated with autism spectrum disorders, and provides some "sobering" findings.    
       Medscape Medical News,   November 28, 2011      
     
       
 
 



 
 
       
   
         
   
 
  
    
  Routine Vaccination Decreases Varicella Incidence in Infants   
 
	 
 
    Medscape Medical News,    November 28, 2011    
   
   
         
   
 
  
    
  Top Medical News Stories of 2011   
 
	 
 
    Medscape Medical News,    November 28, 2011    
   
   
         
   
 
  
    
  World Diabetes Congress Builds on Momentum From UN Summit   
 
	 
 
    Medscape Medical News,    November 28, 2011    
   
   
         
   
 
  
    
  Punishment-Free System Increases Medical Error Reports   
 
	 
 
    Reuters Health Information,    November 28, 2011    
   
         
 
   More  
 


  
 
   
 





 
  Public Health & Prevention Perspectives  
 


 
 
           
     
       
           
   
    
   Getting to Chocolate's Great Heart of Darkness     
 
	 
      Dr. Charles P. Vega discusses how chocolate might help the heart.    
       Medscape Family Medicine,   November 22, 2011      
     
     
       
           
   
    
   Herpes Zoster: Who's at Risk and Who Should be Vaccinated     
 
			       
			 
      Who should, and who should not, receive the zoster vaccine is clarified in this brief update from the CDC.    
       CDC Expert Commentary,   November 21, 2011      
     
       
 





 



 
 


  

 
 Physician Compensation Report 2011 
 
  View the Physician Report  
  View Reports by Specialty  
 
 


       
   
         
   
 
  
    
  Pertussis: The Continuing Scourge   
 
	 
 
    Medscape Pediatrics,    November 28, 2011    
   
   
         
   
 
  
    
  How to Discover and Achieve Your Life Goals   
 
	 
 
    Medscape Business of Medicine,    November 28, 2011    
   
   
         
   
 
  
    
  Button Battery Ingestions: How Dangerous Is it in Kids?   
 
			       
			 
 
    CHOP Expert Commentary,    November 28, 2011    
   
         



  Road traffic accidents  
    From  Public Health Portraits in the New Millennium: Mini's Musings 
      		, Posted at 12:12:34, 
      		November 22.
      		8 Comments 
 
  Adolescents report body weight as primary reason for teasing and bullying at school  
    From  Sizable Issues 
      		, Posted at 10:54:04, 
      		November 10.
      		0 Comments 
 



 
   More  
 


  
 
   
 






  

 
  Medscape Collaborations  
 
   
     Centers for Disease Control and Prevention    
     Food and Drug Administration  
 
 
  

   
 



 
  Advisory Board  
 

 
 
 

  Alejandro Cravioto, MD, PhD, DTPH  
  Linda C. Degutis, DrPH, MSN  
  Cheryl E. Easley, PhD, RN  
 
 

 
 
  Audrey Gotsch, DrPH, CHES  
  Charlene M. Hanson, EdD, RN, FNP-BC  
  Omar A. Khan, MD, MHS  
 
 

 
 
  Lionel Lim, MBBS, MPH  
  Edwin C. Marshall, OD, MPH  
 
 


   

 
 Site Editorial Director 
 
  Janet Kim, MPH  
 
 

   

 
   Medscape Staff  
 


 
 
   
 



 



 
















 
  Journal Articles  
 
 
       
   
         
   
 
  
    
  Predicting Babies' Risk of Obesity   
 
	 
 
    Archives of Disease in Childhood,    November 28, 2011    
   
   
         
   
 
  
    
  Healthcare Accreditation Systems: Performance Measures   
 
	 
 
    International Journal for Quality in Health Care,    November 28, 2011    
   
   
         
   
 
  
    
  LGBT Patients   
 
	 
 
    Student BMJ,    November 28, 2011    
   
         
 
   More  
 
   
 






 


  


 



 
 
	 Information from Industry 
 
 
   

 

 
  

   Product Information  
   Topic Information  
   
 
   
 





 
    RSS    Podcasts    Twitter  
   More  
   
 







  



   


 

  

 
  













 


 

 

 
	 
		  
		  
		 
		 
		 
 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		  
		  
	 
 	



 

  
  
  


 





 

 

   About Medscape    Privacy Policy    Terms of Use    WebMD Health    MedicineNet    eMedicineHealth    RxList   WebMD Corporate    Help    Contact Us           

 


 All material on this website is protected by copyright, Copyright © 1994-2011 by WebMD LLC.  This website also contains material copyrighted by 3rd parties.  







 

 


 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

 





 
 
  Close