Betty C. Jung's Web site - Public Health, Health, Jobs, Careers, Cool & Useful Sites - Welcome!! 

 
  

 

  

   

  
  


 
 
 
  

   






    

 

  

  

 


 
        


     
 





 
 
  
             
 
  
 http://www.bettycjung.net/index.htm 
   Web Citation Permalink 
    bcj17@columbia.edu  or,  bettycjung@yahoo.com  
 
 
      
   
   

  
  
 
 

 
    (Posted November 1, 2011)
 

"As early as age 9 years, children with the most cardiovascular risk factors had 
a 37% increased risk for elevated adult carotid IMT vs all other children. By age 12 years, children in the highest quintile of cardiovascular risk factor group had a 48% increased risk for elevated adult carotid IMT.";

"A study of more than 1,000 pre-teens found that those who spent more than two 
hours a day watching TV were 61% more likely than other kids to have increased 
psychological difficulties -- including hyperactivity, emotional, concentration 
and conduct problems, as well as difficulties with peers...";

"Of the adolescents who were overweight at some point, more than half (59%) were 
overweight at 24.Among overweight 24-year-olds, only 33% had never been 
overweight as a teen; 40% had had persistently normal weight as a teen, and 80% 
had had a normal weight at some point during the teen years.";

"Teenagers who look on the bright side of life appear less likely to suffer 
depression,...optimistic thinking appeared to protect against health risks such as emotional problems, substance use, and antisocial behavior,...";

"Short-term exposure to air pollution, ranging from just a few hours to weeks, 
can trigger cardiovascular-disease?related mortality and nonfatal events, 
including MI, heart failure, arrhythmias, and stroke.";

"Although the immune system returns to pre-exercise levels within a few hours 
after the exercise session is over, each session may improve immunosurveillance 
against pathogens that reduce overall upper respiratory tract infection incidence and symptomatology.";

"After adjusting for numerous potential confounders, physical inactivity was 
associated with more than double the risk of pulmonary embolism (HR 2.34, 95% CI 
1.30 to 4.20),"..."Muscular activity in the lower extremities is required to 
promote venous blood return. Thus, lack of such activity could result in venous 
stasis and thrombosis,"..."Lower levels of circulating factors such as tissue 
plasminogen activator, platelets, and fibrinogen could also play a role by 
increasing thrombotic tendency and plasma viscosity.";

"Aerobic exercise may help older adults improve their memory,...walking three 
times a week for a year led to increases in the volume of the hippocampus, which 
plays an important role in memory.";

"...living a physically active lifestyle is associated with a 40% reduction in 
the genetic predisposition to common obesity.";

"...personality may influence the rate of brain aging....neuroticism was 
associated with greater age-related decline in brain volume, whereas 
conscientiousness was associated with less age-related decline.";

"at the molecular level ... exercising has an antiaging effect on the 
cardiovascular system...People who engaged in the most exercise had telomeres of 
similar length to inactive people up to 10 years younger."


  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
          
     
      
   
         
   
    
    
    
     
        
          
        

        
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

         
         
     
        
   

    
     
     
   
  
     
 
 

 
    All Quality of Life Quotes & References Page    

   
 
 
   
  
 

  

 
 


 


   
  
 

 
 



 
 
 
 
      Powered by IP2Location.com  
 
 
  2011 Calendar   
   Happy 2011  
   
  
  
 
     
 
   
   
     Vision  
     To provide a place where public health and 
      healthcare professionals, and anyone interested, can find good quality 
      information that exist on the World Wide Web.   
   
     Mission  
     To be the only site you'll ever need to start a 
      search for public health and healthcare information.   
   
     Goal 
     To meet the  Evaluation 
      Criteria  set by the Health Summit Working 
      Group  for Quality Health Information on the 
  Internet & adhere to the  Stanford Guidelines for Web Credibility   and... 
 
 Objectives 
 11/2004 - Highlighted "I-Spy: Website of Interest" in  International Society of Performance Improvement Newsletter   
 9/8/2003 -   Praise-worthy Consumer Webwatch site    
 4/2001 - Listed as a credible source of Public Health information by the  Open Directory Project  (quite an honor for a personal Web site!) 
 

 
    October 2011    
 
 
 
  
  # of Web site Hits: 
 20,636 
   # of Unique Visitors:      15,479 
  Highest month's hits: 37,389 (3/2007) 
   Thanks so much!!   
   
   
  
  
  


     

 
 Ratings   
 
 
 
  
 
       This site complies with the 
   HONcode standard for trustworthy health  information:   verify here.     
 
 
    
    
	
 
     
 


  
 
    

 
 Your Feedback 
        
    
 
    
  
  
 

    
  
 
  

 
 
 
  
Who Are You?    
   
  Who Are You?
     
     Academic/Educator 
 K-12 Student 
 College Student 
 Graduate Student 
 Government Professional 
 Healthcare Professional 
 Public Health Professional 
 Social Service Professional 
 Site came up on a search 
 Other 
                       Search The Internet      
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
       English Translation  
      Chinese Translation   
      Chinese Translation   
      Spanish Translation   
      German Translation   
      Japanese Translation   
      French Translation   
      Arabic Translation   
      Greek Translation   
      Italian Translation   
      Korean Translation   
      Hindi Translation   
      Russian Translation   
       Swedish Translation    
      translation  
 
 
 
  




 
 
 
  
 
 
    Health  

       
     
    

  Consumer Health Information   
     
    
     
     
    
        
     

    
 
 
    Scientific   

      
    
   
    
  Public Health Software  
  Statistical Functions/Procedures  
  Statistical Programs  
  Satistical Reporting 101  
 

 
    Public Health  

  
      
  Continuing Education Opportunities  
  Epidemiology Index    
     
  Health Education  
  Program Evaluation Grid  
  Public Health 
  Public Health Data 
  Public Health Search Engines  
    
  Quality of Life Quotes  
  US Federal Government Stats  
   

 
 
     Education 

  Academic Rsources   
    
  APA Information  
     
     
 
 
    Jobs  

    

      
    Temperament  



    Career & Alumni Resources  


     
  MPH Alumni Record Site Map  

  Public Health Chapter Web Site  

 

 
    General Interest 

      
  Cool & Useful Sites    Everything.... 
  For Kids Only                   
  Web site Statistics   
  Topical Search Engines  
  Useful Sites  
  Web Development & Net Resources   
 

     
 
   
 
 Continuous feeds from the CDC and Credible Health Information Sources  
 
  

  
 
 
 
 

 
  Data And Statistics  
  
        CDC Data and Statistics Widget.   Flash Player 9 is required.   
 ???
 ???    




 
 
 
 
      Knowledge to Action Science Clips Top Ten              Knowledge to Action Science Clips Top Ten.   Flash Player 9 is required.             


  
 
 
 


 
  Everyday Health  
  
        CDC Everyday Health Widget.   Flash Player 9 is required.   
 ???
 ???    


 
 
 


 
              Five Minutes Or Less For Health Widget.   Flash Player 9 is required.   
            
  
 

 
 
               CDC Vital Signs.   Flash Player 9 or above is required.             
 

 
                FDA Widget.   Flash Player 9 or above is required.     ?         



 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
     Get the  HealthNewsReview.org  widget and many other  great free widgets  at  Widgetbox ! Not seeing a widget? ( More info ) 
 
 
  
 

 
 
  
  
 
     
   
   
     Which is the most important Public 
      Health Competency?    Cast your vote Analytic/Assessment Basic 
        Public Health Sciences Communications Community Practice Cultural 
        Competency Financial Planning/Management Leadership/Systems Thinking Policy Dev/Program Planning    
              
 
 
 
 
    
 
 Site Search Engine  
 


  
 
   
     
       
         
         
         
         
       
     
   
   
    
   
   
    Custom Search
   
 

 
   
 

 
 
   
  
 

  Recommended by University of Michigan's SPH Career Services &    Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health   
 
 
 
   
     
      Subscribe to Phjobs
     
   
   
     
       
     
     
       
     
   
   
     
      Powered by  health.groups.yahoo.com  
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
      Subscribe to PHE-News
     
   
   
     
       
     
     
       
     
   
   
     
      Powered by  health.groups.yahoo.com  
     
   
 
 



  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   Add this code to your Web site to link to my Web site 
    
        
   
    And this icon will show up:   
      
    or a simple link 
    to  www.bettycjung.net   
 
 
     
  
 
      Get the  Dow Jones, Nasdaq, S&P 500, stock market data - C  widget and many other  great free widgets  at  Widgetbox ! Not seeing a widget? ( More info )    

  
  
 
   

 


   

  
 
 


 Web site created: August 25, 1999 
 
         
 Contruction time for 2011: R269
 Construction time for 2010:              R214
  Cumulative time and revision stats 
 Comments, Suggestions, Dead link Reports:    
 
This Web site is now  &  years and 
 &   months old!! 

 ©  Copyright 1999 - 2012  
  All rights reserved. 

   
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
     
  
    
  
 
    
 
    
     
 
 



          Sponsored by   Web 
Hosting    

  
  
 
  
  

 
    
    
 
    
         
   
    
  

 
           

      
     
  
   
  
  
 
           
      
  
     
  1987-2004   
 
.