On the Lip - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 

	 On the Lip 
	

		 

  No Bluffing . . . Golf a Romantic Affair at Cabin Bluff  

	

by Elisa Gaudet
  
"Golf is very much like a love affair,. If you don't take it seriously, it's no fun, if you do, it breaks your he...
 


 
 

  If Superbowl = Disney & Golf Major = Bermuda . . . I'll take Bermuda  

	

by Elisa Gaudet
   
Most Americans will agree they are thrilled the NFL is back on track and by the end of the season one talented a...
 


 
 

  From Crazy to Luxury - The Extremes We Go for Golf  

	

by Elisa Gaudet
  
There's no doubt that golf has its fanatics that will go to great lengths and spare no expense to partake in the ...
 


 
 

  Rory & Rickie Drawing Young Fans  

	

by Elisa Gaudet
  
As I sat sipping espresso from my newly purchased 2011 U.S. Open Congressional coffee mug I can't help but think ...
 


 
 

  Remembrances of Seve  

	

by Elisa Gaudet
  
Working in the sports industry I am fortunate that I've met many great athletes. Over the years I've overheard pe...
 


 
 

  From Pimento to Pepto - Masters Round-up  

	

by Elisa Gaudet
  
While my colleagues at the major news outlets have long ago summed up the emotional and physical prowess of the p...
 


 
 

  Golf is getting ready for the Prom  

	

by Elisa Gaudet
  
Ah spring, the lovely time of year when the flowers are blooming and golf clubs open their doors as the season si...
 


 
 

  Do Mermaids Golf?  

	

by Elisa Gaudet
   
A question I am sure many have pondered as they venture out into the deep blue: Lurking in the mind of every lat...
 


 
 

  Big Easy Does it . . . Again & Again  

	

by Elisa Gaudet
  
Ernie Els, the laidback South African known as the "Big Easy," has returned to the winner's circle twice in the p...
 


 
 

  Hail Colombia!  

	

by Elisa Gaudet
  
How far would you travel to meet a friend for coffee? How about 2493.52 miles southwest from New York City to Bog...
 


 



		
			
				 Tiger, Tiger, Tiger: It's Jan Brady all over again - Marsha, Marsha, Marsha  
			
				 Bucket Lists   
			
				 Phil's Phanatics  
			
				 'Holy MAYAKOBA Batman . . . I mean Brian'  
			
				 Red Sox Faithful One of a Kind  
			
				 Giving Fore Charity  
			
				 Making a Difference South of the Border  
			
				 For the Love of Golf  
			
				 The Funny Thing About Golf   
			
				 007: This is Your Year  
			
				 On the Lip - No Horsing Around  
			
				 Game - Jet - Love  
			
				 The Unusual Suspects  
			
				 Bringing Sexy Golfers Back . . .That's Hot!  
			
				 How Do You Say Funk in Spanish?  
			
				 2007 Resolution ? Play Better Golf  
			
				 Discover Dominican Golf  
			
				 Talking Head Covers  
			
				 Shaq, the Track & a Few Who Hack  
			
				 Honk If You?ve Got Golf  
			
				 Among Giants   
			
				 On the Lip ? Funky Cool Kind of Caring  
			
				 Derby Days: 48 Hours in Kentucky  
			
				 On the Lip ? The Shining Black Knight   
			
				 On the Lip ? Celebrity Golf is About Giving Back  
			
				 On the Lip: Swimming with Sharks  
			
				 Don Shula,  The Man, the Myth, the Legend, the Caddie?   
			
				 On the Lip ? Slice Right  
			
				 Tis the Season and Golf Gifts never need a Reason!  
			
				 On the Lip with Charles Barkley  
			
				 On the Lip ? With Donald Trump  
			
				 On the Lip ? A Visit with Michael Campbell  
			
				 On the Lip ? At the Tavistock Cup  
			
				 On the Lip - When In Pain Seek Professional Advice  
			
				 On the Lip - While golf may have started in Scotland, it was perfected or ?mastered? in Augusta.  
			
				 On the Lip ? At the 2005 Masters  
			
				 On the Lip ? At the Ninth Annual Gary Player Invitational  
			
				 On the Lip ? A Visit with a Teaching Guru  
			
				 On the Lip ? Playing with the Greats  
			
				 On the Lip ? In the Bahamas at the Michael Jordan Celebrity Invitational  
			
		
	

	 

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits