Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   North Carolina  Ç Pinehurst Area 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Pinehurst Area Golf News  
			 

  Traditional Golf Properties Acquires Falls Village Golf Club in Durham  

Traditional Golf Properties and a team of investors have acquired Falls Village Golf Club in Durham, N.C., expanding their cluster in the R...
 


 
 

  American Hero & Expert Golfer Endorses Heroes Crusade Tournament   

Brian "Ski" Donarski had little patience for the challenging game of golf several years ago. Fast forward to today, and you'll find a guy t...
 


 
 

  Peggy Kirk Bell Turns 90 This Month   

One of golf's grand ladies will celebrate her 90th birthday on October 28. Peggy Kirk Bell, the popular long-time owner of the Pine Needles...
 


 
 

  Perry Secures First Champions Tour Victory  

Kenny Perry closed with a 2-under 70 to notch his first victory on the Champions Tour. The 51-year-old Kentuckian was propelled to the win in the S...
 


 
 

  Forest Creek GC in Southern Pines to Host 2013 U.S. Mid-Amateur  

Forest Creek Golf Club near the Village of Pinehurst has been selected by the United States Golf Association to host the 2013 U.S. Mid-Amateur Cham...
 


 
 

  Golf Courses in North Carolina's Outer Banks Open for Labor Day  

Despite absorbing a direct hit from Hurricane Irene, North Carolina's Outer Banks are preparing for a busy Labor Day travel weekend and fal...
 


 
 

  Remodeled Highlands Course at Prestonwood to be Unveiled Labor Day Weekend  

The Highlands Course, the third 18 of Prestonwood's 54 holes redesigned by resident golf course architect Rick Robbins, is set to reope...
 


 
 

  McConnell Golf Reverses Fortunes of Sedgefield Country Club  

In February, after McConnell Golf purchased Sedgefield Country Club in Raleigh, N.C., Wyndham Championship tournament director Mark Bra...
 


 
 

  Dufner Moves on After Final Round at PGA Championship  

Jason Dufner has left last week's PGA Championship in his rear-view mirror. On Sunday, the Auburn, Ala., resident enjoyed a five-stroke lead on the...
 


 
 

  McConnell Golf Making a Name for Itself in the Carolinas  

	

by Joel Zuckerman
  
The company will never be as ubiquitous as Troon Golf, but in the "Old North State," McConnell Golf has rapidly...
 


 


		
			
				 Griffin Wins Second Straight U.S. Kids Golf Teen World Championship  
			
				 Legacy Golf Links Chooses Mini Verdi? for New Greens  
			
				 Sifford Honored in Charlotte  
			
				 'Other' Woods Wins Title  
			
				 Work at Pinehurst No. 2 Completed; Reopens for Play  
			
				 Pinehurst No. 2 Reopens  
			
				 North Carolina Pro Bob Boyd Dies  
			
				 McConnell Golf Buys Host Site of Wyndham Championship in Greensboro  
			
				 Remodel Completed at Bald Head Island Club off North Carolina's Coast  
			
				 South Course at Carmel CC Renovated by Rees Jones  
			
				 Simson Wins U.S. Senior Amateur  
			
				 Agreement Reduces Trout Stream Impacts from Cliffs at High Carolina Golf Course  
			
				 Quail Hollow Selected for 2017 PGA Championship  
			
				 River Landing 18 Gets New Turf  
			
				 The Glories of Pinehurst  
			
				 Coore & Crenshaw to Oversee Pinehurst No. 2 Remodel  
			
				 Cape Fear National joins Carolinas' Brunswick Isles Golf Trail  
			
				 Tot Hill Farm to Host 1st Annual Mike Strantz Memorial Tournament  
			
				 North Carolina Course Converting to Paspalum Greens  
			
				 N.C. Golf Industry Drives $5.3 Billion in Economic Benefit   
			
				 McConnell Golf Expands its Network of Clubs in the Carolinas  
			
				 CC of Carolina to Host 2010 U.S. Girls' Junior Championship  
			
				 Work Continues at Brunswick Forest and Cape Fear National  
			
				 New Training Device Helps Golfers Hone Putting Ability; PGA Tour caddie Mike Hicks among Developers Of 'The Big Putt'  
			
				 Development in North Carolina Sold  
			
				 Bear Lake Reserve Opens Nicklaus Course  
			
				 Lake Toxaway to be Unveiled in August  
			
				 New Course in N.C. Gets Name  
			
				 New Course in N.C. Gets Name  
			
				 Spence Involved in Three Projects  
			
				 Golf to Assist Marines at Camp Lejeune  
			
				 Work Continues on Large Project Near Wilmington, N.C.  
			
				 Work Continues on Ginn Laurelmor Resort  
			
				 Olde Sycamore Back in Shape   
			
				 Mickelson Finalizing Design for River Rock in North Carolina  
			
				 Tiger Woods to Design First American Course In North Carolina  
			
				 'New' MVC Clubhouse Unveiled After Major Renovation  
			
				 Phase I of Golf Course Redesign is Complete at Lake Toxaway  
			
				 Nicklaus Advises Upgrades at National GC  
			
				 Spence to Renovate Sedgefield CC  
			
				 Nicklaus Course Planned for Mountains of Western Carolina  
			
				 Expanded Clubhouse at Maggie Valley Club Now Underway  
			
				 Redesign of Lake Toxaway Course Continues  
			
				 Brunswick Plantation to be Renovated  
			
				 New Course Underway at White Oak Plantation  
			
				 Davis Love?s Design Company Getting Busy  
			
				 Spence to Restore Historic Cape Fear Course   
			
				 Love & Tommy Fazio Architects for New Preserve at Greyson  
			
				 Fred Couples Involved in New North Carolina Golf Course  
			
				 Golf Resort Coming to Camden County N.C.  
			
				 Historic Plantation to Become Resort Community  
			
				 'Crazy' Owners Have Fun with Golf Course  
			
				 Discover the Joys of Golf North of Myrtle Beach  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Pinehurst Area
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Pinehurst Area Golf Courses 
			
 
 Legacy Golf Links  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Forest Creek Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 




 
 Foxfire Resort & Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 The Country Club of Whispering Pines  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



			 
		  Pinehurst Area Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits