Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Virginia  Ç Richmond Area 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Richmond Area Golf News  
			 

  Virginia Course to Get New Clubhouse  

Six years after its golf course opened, King Carter Golf Club in Irvington, Va., will finally break ground on a new clubhouse September...
 


 
 

  Port Edges Good Friend to Win Fourth U.S. Women's Mid-Am Title  

Ellen Port added her name to the Mildred Prunaret Women's Mid-Amateur Championship Trophy for a record fourth time with her 2-and-1 victory ove...
 


 
 

  Lee Wins USGA Senior Amateur   

Louis Lee, 55, of Heber Springs, Ark., made a 4-foot par putt on the 18th hole to edge Philip Pleat, 55, of Nashua, N.H., 1 up, in the championship...
 


 
 

  Kingsmill Resort Offers Golf in Splendid Isolation  

	

by Steve Habel
  
Set in the middle of the one of the world's most popular tourist destinations, Williamsburg spreads across a ridge...
 


 
 

  Down by the River - Dye's Course at Virginia Tech   

	

by Steve Habel
  
The first thing players notice about the Pete Dye-designed River Course of Virginia Tech is - appropriately - the ...
 


 
 

  Ballyhack an Exacting Test  

	

by Steve Habel
  
Much has been written about Ballyhack Golf Club, Lester George's wonderful and exacting test in the rolling hills ...
 


 
 

  Picturesque Roanoke Courses  

	

by Steve Habel
  
Chock-full of great golf courses amid the drop-dead-gorgeous Blue Ridge Mountains to the west and the expansive Sm...
 


 
 

  County-Owned Course in Virginia to Host 2013 U.S. Amateur Public Links  

Laurel Hill Golf Club in Lorton, Va., which is owned and operated by the Fairfax County Park Authority, has been selected by the United...
 


 
 

  State of Virginia Announces Golf Trail  

Lieutenant Gov. Bill Bolling, Stafford County and the Virginia Tourism Corporation have announced the creation of the Virginia Golf Trail, ...
 


 
 

  Tiger Woods Learning Center Expanded  

On Friday, Tiger Woods joined the 9th grade class at Cesar Chavez Public Charter School's Capitol Hill Campus for an assembly that celebrat...
 


 


		
			
				 Simson Wins U.S. Senior Amateur  
			
				 Simple Twist of Fate Brings Ballyhack Golf Club to Life  
			
				 Courses in Virginia's Monticello Golf Trail Aim for Sustainability  
			
				 Bay Creek to host Virginia-West Virginia Team Matches  
			
				 Fredericksburg, Va. - Great Golf Merges with Civil War History  
			
				 Primland - A Place of History & Relaxation  
			
				 Potomac Cup Rolls Toward Tenth Anniversary Better Than Ever  
			
				 Killer Bees Swarm: Maryland Clinches Potomac Cup Before Sunday Singles Begins  
			
				 The Viewer's Guide to the Potomac Cup  
			
				 Ballyhack Team Shaping Up  
			
				 Golf Development in Virginia Gets New Life  
			
				 Kinloch Golf Club to Host 2011 USGA Senior Amateur  
			
				 Schuller Wins PGA Match Play Championship  
			
				 Armed Forces Retirement Home GC Gets Audubon Status  
			
				 Furious Virginia Rally Falls Short, Maryland Wins Potomac Cup 19.5-16.5  
			
				 Day 2 of the Potomac Cup: Maryland vs. Virginia - The Cup & the Lip  
			
				 Red Storm: Maryland Seizes First Potomac Cup Lead in Three Years  
			
				 Water's Edge Reopens after Renovation  
			
				 Wintergreen Resort Set to Unveil Remodeled Tuckahoe Nine   
			
				 Exclusive Club Taking Shape near Roanoke  
			
				 Project near Roanoke Features Extraordinary Site  
			
				 Mattaponi Springs in Virginia Has Bright Future  
			
				 ?Goga? Lessons at Keswick Hall  
			
				 Homestead?s Cascades Course Getting Makeover  
			
				 Nicklaus Signature Course Putting on the Ritz  
			
				 New Norman Course Under Construction In Virginia  
			
				 New Course Coming to Roanoke County  
			
				 Grave Matters at Virginia Course  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Richmond Area
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Richmond Area Golf Courses 
			
 
 Tradition at Royal New Kent  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Tradition at Stonehouse  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Tradition at The Crossings  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Independence Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Mattaponi Springs Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Tradition at The Crossings Golf  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 The Hollows Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Tradition at Brickshire  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Colonial Heritage  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 






			 
		  Richmond Area Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits