South Carolina golf news and courses - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

 


      


  
  
	  

  
   
 
	

 
 
  

  
 
 
	 
		    
		  Ê  
		    
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  Course Guide Home  
				  Golf News  
				  Contact Us  
				  Mobile  
				  Register Your Course  
			 
		 
	 
	
					
 

	 
	 
		 
 
    
   
     

	

	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Old Carolina Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  89 Old Carolina Drive Bluffton, SC 29910 
 www.oldcarolinagolf.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Hilton Head National   Visit Clubhouse  60 Hilton Head National Drive Bluffton, SC 29910 
 www.golfhiltonheadnational.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Eagle's Pointe Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  1 Eagle's Pointe Drive Bluffton, SC 29909 
 www.eaglespointegolf.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Crescent Pointe  Visit Clubhouse  1 Crescent Pointe Bluffton, SC 29910 
 www.crescentpointegolf.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Willow Creek  Visit Clubhouse  205 Sandy Run Greer, SC 29651 
 www.willow-creekgolf.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  RiverTowne Country Club  Visit Clubhouse  1700 RiverTowne Country Club Dr. Mt. Pleasant, SC 29466 
 www.rivertownecountryclub.com  
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Patriots Point Links  Visit Clubhouse  One Patriots Point Rd. Mt. Pleasant, SC 29464 
 www.patriotspointlinks.com  
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Dunes West Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  3535 Wando Plantation Way Mt. Pleasant, SC 29466 
 www.duneswestgolfclub.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  The Waterford Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  1900 Clubhouse Road Rock Hill, SC 29730 
 www.thelinksatwaterford.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Cobblestone Park  Visit Clubhouse  400 Blythewood Road Blythewood, SC 29016 
 www.cobblestoneparkgolfclub.com 
 
  
	 
	

     
   
    
 
  
 
	



	 

		   South Carolina Golf News   

		 

  Never a Dull Moment at Reynolds Plantation's Golf Courses  

	

by Steve Habel
  
Getting away from it all by not going too far away seems harder and harder in the 21st century. But the folks that...
 


 
 

  Q&A with a Grand Strand Veteran  

	

by Jeff Shelley
  
Visited annually by over 14 million tourists a year, the Grand Strand in South Carolina is home to a variety of a...
 


 
 

  Wexford Plantation Reopens after Remodel by "The King"  

Hilton Head Island, S.C., mayor Drew Laughlin proclaimed October 20, 2011, "Arnold Palmer Day" in conjunction with Palmer's ret...
 


 
 

  Hank Haney Developing Future of Golf on Hilton Head Island  

Tiger Woods, Charles Barkley, Ray Romano, Rush Limbaugh and Marta Silva have one thing in common: they've all been coached by Hank ...
 


 
 

  Enhancements at Harbour Town Complete  

	

Pete Dye has completed enhancements to Harbour Town Golf Links in Hilton Head Isle, S.C. The course is the home of the PGA Tour's RBC Heritage. 
 


 
 

  Country Club of Charleston to Host 2013 U.S. Women's Amateur  

The Country Club of Charleston in South Carolina has been selected by the United States Golf Association to host the 2013 U.S. Women's Amateur ...
 


 
 

  McConnell Golf Making a Name for Itself in the Carolinas  

	

by Joel Zuckerman
  
The company will never be as ubiquitous as Troon Golf, but in the "Old North State," McConnell Golf has rapidly...
 


 
 

  Sea Pines' Heron Point by Pete Dye Co-stars with Harbour Town Golf Links  

	

by David Wood
  
It's not easy for a golf course residing next to a superstar on every serious golfer's bucket list. However, the Pe...
 


 
 

  LPGA & USGA Team Up for New Event  

The LPGA and the United States Golf Association (USGA) have announced that they will co-host the inaugural LPGA-USGA Girls Golf Team Championship &...
 


 
 

  Heritage Gets New Sponsor  

Thanks to a team effort, the popular Heritage tournament in Hilton Head, S.C., is guaranteed to be played again in 2012. For the past two years the...
 


 


		
			
				 Sea Pines Resort's Heron Point Named One of America's 'Top 50 Courses for Women' by Golf Digest  
			
				 NYC Firefighters to Donate World Trade Center Beam to Myrtle Beach Holiday  
			
				 Santee Makes for Affordable Golf Getaway   
			
				 Dataw Island Club to Remodel Courses  
			
				 Hootie & The Blowfish Monday After The Masters Sold Out  
			
				 Will 2011 Heritage be its Last Hurrah?  
			
				 Palmer to Renovate Wexford Plantation on Hilton Head   
			
				 Myrtle Beach, Mystical Style  
			
				 Tickets to go On Sale for Monday After the Masters Celebrity Pro-Am   
			
				 Strantz-Designed Caledonia & True Blue Are Must-Plays in Myrtle Beach  
			
				 Trio of Courses Serve as Great Intro to Myrtle Beach  
			
				 Golf in Carolina's Low Country   
			
				 Trahan & Azar Win 2010 Hootie & The Blowfish Monday After Masters   
			
				 Hilton Head & Bluffton: Yesterday & Today  
			
				 Stars Aligned for Hootie & the Blowfish Monday After the Masters  
			
				 A Hidden Gem in Carolina's Low Country  
			
				 Plans Finishing Up on Renovations of River Oaks Golf Plantation  
			
				 Cape Fear National joins Carolinas' Brunswick Isles Golf Trail  
			
				 Callawassie Island Completes $4 Million Renovation  
			
				 Redesign & Renovation of CC of Spartanburg is Complete  
			
				 Dataw Island Club to Undergo Improvements  
			
				 Fazio Course at Barefoot Resort & Golf to Reopen July 1  
			
				 Coosaw Creek CC Hires Private Club Associates  
			
				 Mark Anderson: Remember This Name  
			
				 Fripp & Dataw Islands - Two Getaways in Carolina Lowcountry  
			
				 Southern Charm at Palmetto Bluff in South Carolina  
			
				 Carolinas PGA Section Moving to Grande Dunes   
			
				 Course at Keowee Springs Opens  
			
				 Fort Mill Reopens After Year-Long Renovation   
			
				 Spence Completes Renovation of Furman University GC  
			
				 Pine Lakes Country Club in Myrtle Beach Set for March 2009 Reopening  
			
				 Pine Lakes Country Club in Myrtle Beach Set for March 2009 Reopening  
			
				 The Sanctuary at Lake Russell to Feature Arthur Hills Course  
			
				 The Sanctuary at Lake Russell to Feature Arthur Hills Course  
			
				 40 Years of the Heritage  
			
				 Clyde Johnston to Renovate Fort Mill Golf Course  
			
				 Diamond Back to be Renamed Woodland Valley Country Club  
			
				 Dye Continues to Refine The Ocean Course at Kiawah Island  
			
				 Somewhere in Heaven, Mike Strantz is Smiling  
			
				 Barefoot Resort Adds Yacht Club & Golf School   
			
				 Frontier, Fazio Reopen River Course on Kiawah  
			
				 New Waccamaw Golf Trail Formed  
			
				 Kiawah Island Selected for 94th PGA Championship  
			
				 Haig Point to Receive Extensive Upgrades  
			
				 Player to Design Course for New Cliffs Communities? Project in S.C.  
			
				 Wild Wing Plantation Set to Close 45 Holes  
			
				 Pawleys Plantation Tour Trio Package Now Available  
			
				 Construction Underway at Carolina Lakes Golf Course   
			
				 Former Sea Gull GC to Undergo Major Transformation  
			
				 Grande Dunes Members Club Ready to Debut  
			
				 May I Borrow Your Alligator Ball Retriever?  
			
				 Sixes and Twelves ? Not Eighteens  
			
				 Rebirth of Carolina Downs  
			
		
	 

		 	

		 

		
		
			
		
			
			
				  Charleston  
			
			
			 
				  Dunes West Golf Club  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Patriots Point Links  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  RiverTowne Country Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
				  Columbia Area  
			
			
			 
				  Cobblestone Park  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
				  Greenville  
			
			
			 
				  Willow Creek  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
				  Hilton Head Area  
			
			
			 
				  Crescent Pointe  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Eagle's Pointe Golf Club  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Hilton Head National   
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Old Carolina Golf Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
				  Rock Hill  
			
			
			 
				  The Waterford Golf Club  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		

		 
	 
 
	 
	
			   Course Updates  
			
			  
					  
				  Willow Creek  New Winter Rates begin November 15th!  
		
			  
					  
				  Dunes West Golf Club  Celebrating 20 Great Years  
		
		 

		 
			   Web Specials  
			
			  
					
  
				  Halloween Golf  RiverTowne Country Club 
					
						10-31-11
					
					
						to 11-01-11
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  Halloween Golf  RiverTowne Country Club 
					
						10-24-11
					
					
						to 10-25-11
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  Two Fore Tuesday  RiverTowne Country Club 
					
						10-11-11
					
					
						to 10-11-11
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  August Aerification Special  Patriots Point Links 
					
						08-23-11
					
					
						to 08-31-11
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  Beat the Heat Summer special  Sunset Country Club 
					
						08-03-11
					
					
						to 08-05-11
					
			  
		
	  
		
    Clubhouse Updates  
						
					
				
					
						   Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
						   AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
						   bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					

 
	 
	 
		   Golfers looking for partners  


	
	 
	 
		
		
		 Tommy Ryan 
		 11/29/11 at 04:33PM
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	0 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 johnslakjs 
		 11/12/11 at 08:06AM
	 
	  Sample Business 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 golferrick22 
		 10/06/11 at 09:04AM
	 
	  findagolfer.com 
	5 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 jlara 
		 09/26/11 at 11:30AM
	 
	  Clear Creek Golf Course 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

 
 

 


	  
	  Ê
  

 
 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits