Australasia Golf News - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 

	 Australasia Golf News 
	

		 

  Rees Jones' First Asian Course to Debut Next Year  

The 27-hole Yunling Golf & Spa Resort, the first new course in Asia for Rees Jones, will open in 2011. Located in the interior of southwest China i...
 


 
 

  Red Mountain, Loch Palm, Riverdale join GIAK  

	

Three of Thailand's top resort venues have joined the country's golf-marketing cooperative, "Golf in a Kingdom: The Thai Golf Experience," while a ...
 


 
 

  Japanese Teen Wins Asian Amateur & Spot in Masters  

Hideki Matsuyama closed with a 4-under 67 to win the Asian Amateur Championship. In beating Australia's Tarquin MacManus by five shots, Matsuyama, ...
 


 
 

  Golfplan breaks Ground on Saigon Resort 18  

	

The course architects at Golfplan have stepped up construction of 18 resort holes in the Vietnamese business capital of Ho Chi Minh City. Jeong San...
 


 
 

  Vietnam Golf Coast   

	

The maturation of golf in Vietnam takes another step forward in mid-August with formation of the Vietnam Golf Coast, a new partnership of golf and ...
 


 
 

  Thai Government Gives Thumbs Up to Golf Events   

The government of Thailand has embarked on an ambitious program to develop and position the royal kingdom as "Asia's Golf Hub." This is a collectiv...
 


 
 

  Norman Says East Will Dominate Golf  

If someone told you golf in the east would take over the west you would probably call the men in white coats. But if that person was Australian gol...
 


 
 

  PGA of Asia Is Launched  

The long-awaited PGA of Asia was launched at the inaugural PGA Conference of Asia last weekend. The announcement was met with unanimous support fro...
 


 
 

  Golf Industry Magazine for Australasia Making Inroads  

April 27, 2009. The new Australasian online golf industry network magazine "Golf Industry Central" (GIC) is starting to develop a reputation as a "...
 


 
 

  Asian Golf Monthly Awards Handed out in Singapore  

As Peter Thomson stepped onto the stage, prolonged applause reverberated around the grand ballroom in the Palace of the Golden Horses in Singapore....
 


 



		
			
				 PGA Tour Announces Asian Stop for 2010  
			
				 Eight Golf Equipment Counterfeiters Sentenced to Prison Terms in Beijing   
			
				 Tiger Wins Australian Masters  
			
				 Asia Pacific Golf Summit Is a Success  
			
				 Conflicting Tales of Golf's Benefits in Vietnam  
			
				 Doak Discusses Cape Kidnappers  
			
				 Asia Pacific Golf Summit Heads For New Attendance Record  
			
				 World's Longest Golf Course Set to Open later in October  
			
				 Ho Chi Minh Golf Trail Bridges Gap between Vietnam's North & ASouth  
			
				 Another Golf Great Turns 80  
			
				 Mahan Will Defend in Second Kiwi Challenge   
			
				 Daly to Return to Australia  
			
				 Fresh-Cut Fairways Have Calming Effect   
			
				 Australia Joins World PGA Alliance  
			
				 Australian Golf seeks Independent Report  
			
				 Pebble's Mirror Image in South Korea?  
			
				 Aussies Prefer Golf to Tennis   
			
				 Golden Mountain Golf Club Opens in China  
			
				 World's Longest Golf Course Open for Play  
			
				 Australian Golf Industry Shows Data to Leaders of Game's Importance  
			
				 Australians Banned from Asia Tour for Playing in China Open  
			
				 New Staff Recruitment Service Launched for Australian Golf Industry  
			
				 Danny Lee to Get New Coach  
			
				 Four Australian Golfers Fined & Suspended for Playing in China Open  
			
				 Australia Networks Snub Tiger & Australian Masters  
			
				 Long-time Vietnam Golf Club Manager Launches own Company  
			
				 Asian Golf Industry Federation Is Born  
			
				 Golf's Top Names Line Up in Support of Olympic Bid  
			
				 OneAsia Tour's Pine Valley Beijing Open Canceled  
			
				 Fine & Ban Facing Asian Tour Members Who Play In Beijing  
			
				 Allenby Speaks Out about Returning to Competition in His Home Country  
			
				 East Timor to be Home for New Golf Resort  
			
				 Fiji's Newest Course Set to Open in June  
			
				 Worldwide Economic Meltdown has China Tour Reeling  
			
				 Asian Golf Tour Severs Ties with 'Super Series'  
			
				 Schmidt-Curley Unveils Clearwater Bay Golf Club on China's Hainan Island  
			
				 Bali's Cliffside New Kuta Golf Ready for Indonesian Open  
			
				 Asian Amateur Championship Created  
			
				 12-Year-Old Makes Splash in Australia  
			
				 Penalty Stroke for Anna Rawson  
			
				 Golf Channel-type Network Underway in Australia  
			
				 Japan Golf Tour Pulls out of Australian-led 'Super Series'  
			
				 Asian Tour Denounces Rival Series  
			
				 Schmidt-Curley Design Opening Second Office in China  
			
				 Mission Hills to Host Asia-Pacific Open Amateur   
			
				 Land of the Maharajahs Developing Posh Golf Community  
			
				 Asia Pacific Golf Development Summit a Success  
			
				 China Now One of World's Most Expensive Places for Golf   
			
				 Like America, Golf Course Development Costs Elsewhere in World Rise, but Celebrity Still Sells  
			
				 Aussie PGA Creates 'Carbon Neutral' Championship  
			
				 Architect Rick Jacobson Back In China   
			
				 Amata Spring in Thailand Set to Host the Royal Trophy 2009  
			
				 Chu is Asian Golf's Most Powerful Figure  
			
				 Review Kauri Cliffs & Cape Kidnappers  
			
				 KPMG's Golf Economic Impact Study Gets Support from Industry  
			
				 Adam Scott Expands Charity Foundation to Asia  
			
				 The New India Revealed - Swan Leaves His Mark!  
			
				 Backspin for LPGA's Bivens  
			
				 The LPGA English-Speaking Rule - Are We Asking the Right Questions?  
			
				 Golf Development Is Booming Outside the U.S.  
			
				 ASEAN Golf Federation has Vision for Growth  
			
				 Barnbougle Owner Looks to Bandon Dunes for Inspiration  
			
				 PGA of Australia & Asian Golf Monthly Ink Deal  
			
				 Australia's Gold Coast to Host Masters Golf Tournament  
			
				 Finishing Up in Melbourne & Heading to Sydney  
			
				 Melbourne & Victoria  
			
				 A Yankee Down Under  
			
				 An Open Letter to the International Olympic Committee  
			
				 Peter Thomson Discusses Decline Of Australian Golf   
			
				 Steve Williams Drives Stock Car - Not Mercedes  
			
				 868-Mile Golf Course Planned for Australia  
			
				 Golf in Australia's Outback  
			
				 Coastal Vietnamese Resorts form 'Golf the Beach'  
			
		
	

	 

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits