Historic New Orleans Course Set to Reopen Following Remodel - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 


		  Featured Golf News  
		 Historic New Orleans Course Set to Reopen Following Remodel 

		
		  
		 

	
		 
			
			 After a $9 million project that has resulted in an all-new Joseph M. Bartholomew Sr. Municipal Golf Course, New Orleans officials will be reopening the popular facility on Friday.  
		
	
		 
			
			 The project was necessary after Hurricane Katrina tore through New Orleans. The horrible storm six years ago inundated the course with as much as 22 feet of flood water.  
		
	
		 
			
			 The remodel was overseen by Wisconsin-based architect, Garrett Gill. In addition to new tees, greens and fairways, the project involved nine new lakes and placing power lines underground.  
		
	
		 
			
			 The city had hoped to open the course October 1 after trying to secure the services of an outside vendor to operate it. But the selected company, Ohio-based GolfPlay LLC, wasn't able to get the financing in order to open the course by the target date. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Two other groups submitted proposals in May, but the city decided to get the project completed and open the course on its own. It will be operated by the Department of Parks and Parkways. 
		
	
		 
			
			 The facility, completed in 1956 and originally called Pontchartrain Park Golf Course, has historical significance. Its namesake, who grew up caddying at Audubon Golf Course in New Orleans, was reportedly the first African-American to design and build a public golf facility in the United States. During the segregation era Pontchartrain Park was the only golf course in the area open to African-Americans. It was renamed Bartholomew - who became the first African-American inducted into the Greater New Orleans Sports Hall of Fame in 1972 - in 1979.  
		
	
		 
			
			 According to reporter Kari Dequine of the Times Picayune ( http://www.nola.com/golf/index.ssf/2011/11/joseph_m_bartholomew_sr_munici.html ), Bartholomew got his start in golf architecture after members of Metairie Country Club sent him to New York in 1922 to study golf course design. When he returned to the New Orleans area, he designed and built Metairie Golf Course, City Park courses 1 and 2 in New Orleans, and numerous other courses in the Southeast. Because of his race, however, Bartholomew wasn't allowed to play any of them, so he built a seven-hole course on his own property in Harahan. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Bartholomew, who died in 1971, bequeathed the Pontchartrain Park course to the city under the condition that it always be used for public golf.  
		
	
		 
			
			 Officials are now in planning for a second renovation phase, slated to cost $4 million and begin in 2012. That project will refurbish the clubhouse, pro shop, cart-storage facility and maintenance building. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Greens fees are $25 weekdays and $30 weekends, with discounted rates after 3:00 p.m. For more information or a tee time, visit  http://www.nola.gov/golf .  
		
	

		 
		  
		   ('Õ)  
		    
		      
		 
		 
		 

		 
		 
			
  
		 

		 Story Options 
		 
			 
				  
				  Send to a friend  
			 
			 
				    

				  Print this Story  
			 
			 
				    
				  Recommend this story  
			 
		 
		 
		 
		 GolfVite Updates 
				 
				
					
				
					
					  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
					  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
					  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
				 


		 
		    
		 
		 Headlines 
			 
					
				  Irish Team Disappointed in Final Round of World Cup  
				
				  Kuchar & Woodland Thrilled with World Cup Win  
				
				  Oldest Surviving Member of PGA Dies  
				
				  Never a Dull Moment at Reynolds Plantation's Golf Courses  
				
				  USA Rallies to Win World Cup  
				
			 

		 
		
		 
		 Related News 
			 
					
				  Patterson Course to Debut in 2003  
				
				  Louisiana Opens Its Audubon Golf Trail  
				
				  Louisiana?s Audubon Golf Trail Shaping Up  
				
				  City Plans to Lose One Course, Build Another  
				
				  Work Continues on Estelle Plantation  
				
			 
		 
	
	 
	  


 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits