British Columbia golf news and courses - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

 


      


  
  
	  

  
   
 
	

 
 
  

  
 
 
	 
		    
		  Ê  
		    
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  Course Guide Home  
				  Golf News  
				  Contact Us  
				  Mobile  
				  Register Your Course  
			 
		 
	 
	
					
 

	 
	 
		 
 
    
   
     

	

     
   
    
 
  
 
	



	 

		   British Columbia Golf News   

		 

  PNGA Announces 2011 Players of the Year   

The Pacific Northwest Golf Association (PNGA) has announced the 2011 Player of the Year recipients. The winners include Chris Williams of Moscow...
 


 
 

  Northwest Golf Media Association Announces Annual Awards  

At the 12th annual awards banquet of the Northwest Golf Media Association, John Bodenhamer, longtime head of the Pacific Northwest Golf Ass...
 


 
 

  Shaughnessy & the Canadian Open: What to Make of it All  

	

by Tony Dear
  
The dust has settled after Shaughnessy Golf and Country Club's third Canadian Open (at its current location at least...
 


 
 

  O'Hair Last Man Standing in Canadian Open  

On a course that wreaked havoc with some of golf's best players, it was only fitting that the winner would secure the Canadian Open title with a bo...
 


 
 

  Shaughnessy - Arthur Vernon Macan's Crowning Achievement  

	

by Tony Dear
  
Give it waist-high rough and pencil-thin fairways, then bury elephants under the greens and make the surfaces harder...
 


 
 

  Favorite Designers: Stanley Thompson  

	

by Tony Dear
  
It might seem unreasonable, unjustifiable even, that anyone could list a certain course architect among his favorite...
 


 
 

  Zokol & Ross Named to Canadian Golf Hall of Fame  

Former PGA Tour regular Richard Zokol and Stephen Ross, a long-time official with the Royal Canadian Golf Association, have been named the ...
 


 
 

  100 Years of Banff Golf Kicks off Canadian Rockies Golf Destination 2011 Primer  

	

The Canadian Rockies Golf Consortia will celebrate 100 years of golf in Banff in 2011, along with new course upgrades and activities off the links,...
 


 
 

  Yes Victoria, You Have Great Golf  

	

by Jeff Shelley
  
Victoria, the capital city of British Columbia, is known for its historical landmarks, impressive floral displays...
 


 
 

  Drewitt Wins 109th PNGA Men's Amateur  

Brett Drewitt of Invernell, Australia, won the 109th PNGA Men's Amateur Championship at Royal Colwood Golf Club in Victoria, B.C. D...
 


 


		
			
				 Three Named to Canadian Golf Hall of Fame  
			
				 Book Review: 'Stan Leonard - Canada's Forgotten Golf Legend'  
			
				 Riding the Pacific Northwest's Best Golf Trail from Kamloops to Kelowna   
			
				 Magazine Names Sagebrush Best New Course in Canada  
			
				 Four Years in 'Minors' Finally Pays Off for British Columbia's Richdale  
			
				 Golf of Olympic Proportions  
			
				 New British Columbia Golf Resort in the Works  
			
				 Canadian Superintendents Face New Pesticide Use & Reporting Requirements  
			
				 Bandon Dunes' Keiser is at it Again  
			
				 Schmidt-Curley to Co-Design Course with Faldo in B.C.  
			
				 The Rise Opens in Vernon, B.C.  
			
				 First Nine at Tower Ranch Set to Open  
			
				 First Nine at Tower Ranch Set to Open  
			
				 Sorenstam Set to Design Course in British Columbia  
			
				 Ground Broken on Gary Player?s First Canadian Course  
			
				 Nicklaus Signature Course Planned for Canada's West Coast   
			
				 Nicklaus Visits Bear Mountain in British Columbia  
			
				 Gary Player Design Debuts in British Columbia   
			
				 The Story of Vancouver Island?s Bear Mountain Resort  
			
				 Provincial Changes  
			
				 Pleasures of the Harbour ? Victoria B.C.  
			
				 Canada?s Influence in Golf Course Architecture  
			
				 Visit British Columbia & Golf!  
			
		
	 

		 	

		 

		
		
			
		

		 
	 
 
	 
	
			   Course Updates  
			
			  
					  
				  Kimberley Golf Club  2012 Early Bird Memberships  
		
			  
					  
				  Kimberley Golf Club  Champions!  
		
			  
					  
				  Kimberley Golf Club  Jared duToit Wins big on MJT  
		
			  
					  
				  Kimberley Golf Club  Join our E-Club  
		
		 

		 
			   Web Specials  
			
			  
					
  
				  Weekend Twilight  Kimberley Golf Club 
					
						07-01-11
					
					
						to 07-10-11
					
			  
		
	  
		
    Clubhouse Updates  
						
					
				
					
						   Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
						   AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
						   bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					

 
	 
	 
		   Golfers looking for partners  


	
	 
	 
		
		
		 Tommy Ryan 
		 11/29/11 at 04:33PM
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	0 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 johnslakjs 
		 11/12/11 at 08:06AM
	 
	  Sample Business 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 golferrick22 
		 10/06/11 at 09:04AM
	 
	  findagolfer.com 
	5 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 jlara 
		 09/26/11 at 11:30AM
	 
	  Clear Creek Golf Course 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

 
 

 


	  
	  Ê
  

 
 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits