Tour Updates and PGA News - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 

	 Tour Updates and PGA News 
	

		 

  Kuchar & Woodland Thrilled with World Cup Win  

Matt Kuchar and partner Gary Woodland overcame an elite field of two-man teams from around the world to win the Omega Mission Hills World Cup in Ch...
 


 
 

  Irish Team Disappointed in Final Round of World Cup  

The Irish duo of Graeme McDowell and Rory McIlroy were in perfect position to pull off their country's third overall World Cup title on Sunday. The...
 


 
 

  USA Rallies to Win World Cup  

The American duo of Matt Kuchar and Gary Woodland closed with a 5-under 67 in Sunday's foursomes (alternate-shot) matches to win the Omega Mission ...
 


 
 

  Chalmers Wins Australian PGA  

Greg Chalmers has enjoyed quite a month of November. The 38-year-old Aussie won his country's two major golf championships, the Australian Open two...
 


 
 

  2015 Presidents Cup to Be Played in South Korea  

On Wednesday PGA Tour commissioner announced that the 2015 Presidents Cup matches will be held in South Korea. A venue has not been determined.
 


 
 

  Westwood to Rejoin PGA Tour  

England's Lee Westwood has decided to rejoin the PGA Tour in 2012. In order to do that, he must play a minimum of 15 events in the U.S. His first t...
 


 
 

  Hollis Stacy Named to World Golf Hall of Fame  

The World Golf Hall of Fame & Museum will induct four-time LPGA major winner Hollis Stacy as part of its class of 2012. The announcement that Stacy...
 


 
 

  Fine Field Slated for Abu Dhabi HSBC Golf Championship  

	

The Abu Dhabi HSBC Golf Championship next January will feature one of the strongest fields ever assembled for a Middle East golf tournament. Three ...
 


 
 

  Mickelson Named to Golf Hall of Fame  

Phil Mickelson has been elected into the World Golf Hall of Fame. When the announcement was made Thursday, the Hall of Fame revealed that the four-...
 


 
 

  A Conversation with Commissioner Mike Whan - An Update on the Borderless LPGA  

	

by Nancy Berkley
  
November 17th is the first day of the last tournament of the LPGA season. And, after the first of four rounds, t...
 


 



		
			
				 Norman Looks for Format Changes in Future Presidents Cups  
			
				 Tour Delays POY Voting  
			
				 Tseng Named LPGA Player of the Year  
			
				 Sorenstam to Receive Bob Jones Award  
			
				 PGA of America Names Luke Donald Player of the Year & Vardon Trophy Recipient   
			
		
	

	 

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits