Chalmers Wins Australian PGA - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 


		  Featured Golf News  
		 Chalmers Wins Australian PGA 

		
		  
		 

	
		 
			
			 Greg Chalmers has enjoyed quite a month of November. The 38-year-old Aussie won his country's two major golf championships, the Australian Open two weeks ago at the Lakes in Sydney and the Australian PGA at Hyatt Regency Coolum this weekend. 
		
	
		 
			
			 On Sunday, the left-hander closed with a 5-under 67 to tie countrymen Robert Allenby (68) and Marcus Fraser (69) at 12-under 276 in regulation, then won the PGA with a par on the first playoff hole.  
		
	
		 
			
			 "I was surprised to see that a par was good enough, but that's how it goes sometime in a playoff," Chalmers said. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Australians Adam Scott (68) and Aaron Baddeley (72) tied for fourth at 10 under, while Aussies Nick O'Hern (67) and Marc Leishman (69) shared sixth with third-round leader K.T. Kim of South Korea, who closed with a 76. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Bubba Watson was only one stroke behind Kim starting the final round, but ballooned to a 77 to end up in 12th. Playing in his first tournament Down Under, American Rickie Fowler had a 70 to finish at 6-under.  
		
	
		 
			
			 The captain of the International team in last week's Presidents Cup at Royal Melbourne, Greg Norman, closed with a 2-over 74 that included a double-bogey on the par-4 18th to end up at 4-under. One of Norman's players on the International squad, Geoff Ogilvy, closed with an 80 that included a nine on the par-3 11th hole after he put three tee shots into a water hazard. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Reigning British Open champion Darren Clarke recovered from a "brutal" 79 Saturday with a 70 in the final round.  
		
	
		 
			
			 For all the scores, visit  http://championship.pga.org.au/scores/714 .  
		
	
		 
			
			  
		
	
		 
			
			  
		
	

		 
		  
		   ('Õ)  
		    
		      
		 
		 
		 

		 
		 
			
  
		 

		 Story Options 
		 
			 
				  
				  Send to a friend  
			 
			 
				    

				  Print this Story  
			 
			 
				    
				  Recommend this story  
			 
		 
		 
		 
		 GolfVite Updates 
				 
				
					
				
					
					  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
					  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
					  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
				 


		 
		    
		 
		 Headlines 
			 
					
				  Irish Team Disappointed in Final Round of World Cup  
				
				  Kuchar & Woodland Thrilled with World Cup Win  
				
				  Oldest Surviving Member of PGA Dies  
				
				  Never a Dull Moment at Reynolds Plantation's Golf Courses  
				
				  USA Rallies to Win World Cup  
				
			 

		 
		
		 
		 Related News 
			 
					
				  Talk About Having a Blast on the Golf Course  
				
				  New Pete Dye Course to be Irrigated with Saltwater  
				
				  Exotic Resort Enhanced with New Golf Holes  
				
				  GV Incentives Eases Golf Trips to Great Britain  
				
				  Comin Soon  
				
			 
		 
	
	 
	  


 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits