Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

 


      


  
  
	  

  
   
 
	

 
 
  

  
 
 
	 
		 
 
	Log in to Cybergolf Clubhouse
	 
	  Email:     
	  Password:     
	 
	 
	 Forgot password? 
 

 
	 
	 
		 

			 
				  Course Guide Home  
				  Golf News  
				  Contact Us  
				  Mobile  
				  Register Your Course  

			 
		 
	 
	

 
 

 
 

 
 
	 



 
 Orchard Ridge Country Club 
4531 Lower Huntington Rd. 
Fort Wayne, IN 46809 
(260) 747-3117 
 http://www.orchardridgecc.com  

    
 
   
 
 
	 Golf Pro 

	




 Looking for Partners 
 

	Currently there are no partner requests at Orchard Ridge Country Club,  Click here to create one. 

 

 Golf Invite 
 
 
 Invite a friend to golf at Orchard Ridge Country Club 
 
 Photos 
  
 Visit web site  

 
 
	
	
	
	 Orchard Ridge Country Club - Course Updates 
	
		  Orchard Ridge Country Club BRUNCH with SANTA on DECEMBER 3rd! 
		 Come see Santa between 11am and 1pm and RSVP for the Brunch before Friday at 4pm. Hope you are all enjoying the season! 
		 Posted about 12 hours ago 
	 
	
		  Orchard Ridge Country Club Grand Holiday Brunch Dec 18th 
		 Bring the family or friends for the Holiday Brunch at Orchard Ridge. Hours for the brunch are from 11 to 2. RSVPS especially important for larger groups. 
		 Posted 10 days ago 
	 
	
		  Orchard Ridge Country Club Candlelite Dinner for the Holidays 
		 December 14th is the date for our Candlelite Dinner/Candy Cane Dinner. RSVPs appreciated and time frame for the evening is 6p to 9p.  
		 Posted 11 days ago 
	 
	
		  Orchard Ridge Country Club New Club Room Hours 
		 Off Season Club Room Dining Hours
Lunch is served Tuesday-Sunday 11a-2p Dinner is available Thursday-Saturday from 5p-9p  
		 Posted 18 days ago 
	 
	
		  Orchard Ridge Country Club Shopper Alert! 
		 Our Pro Shop has a 40% Retail Sale on ALL Ladies Apparel. (think Christmas and Birthdays) Visit Travis and Eric and check out this limited time offer.  
		 Posted about 1 month ago 
	 
	
	
	 Location 

 

 
 Weather 
      
 

 
	
 CBS Video 
    

 Cybergolf News 

	  Kuchar & Woodland Thrilled with World Cup Win  

	  Irish Team Disappointed in Final Round of World Cup  

	  Oldest Surviving Member of PGA Dies  

	  USA Rallies to Win World Cup  

	  Chalmers Wins Australian PGA  

 Games 

  
Take the Quiz:  Which Pro Golfer Are You?   
 Trivia 
 ? Challenge yourself with  Clubhouse Trivia  

	 Golf Poll 
				
				 
				Is the Tiger - Phil era over?
				 
				 	
				
					
					 No - those two are still the best players in the world. 
					
				
					
					 Yes - time for the new guys on tour to take over.  
					
				
					
				
					
				
				 
			 
			  
			 

 
 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits