Hawaii golf news and courses - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

 


      


  
  
	  

  
   
 
	

 
 
  

  
 
 
	 
		    
		  Ê  
		    
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  Course Guide Home  
				  Golf News  
				  Contact Us  
				  Mobile  
				  Register Your Course  
			 
		 
	 
	
					
 

	 
	 
		 
 
    
   
     

	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Puakea  Visit Clubhouse  4150 Nuhou Road Lihue, Kauai, HI 96766 
 www.puakeagolf.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Kaanapali Golf Courses  Visit Clubhouse  2290 Kaanapali Parkway Lahaina, MAUI, HI 96761 
 www.kaanapaligolfresort.com 
 
  
	 
	

     
   
    
 
  
 
	



	 

		   Hawaii Golf News   

		 

  Porter-King Named PGA First Lady of Golf  

Mary Bea Porter-King of Kapaa, Hawaii, a celebrated four-sport collegiate athlete, LPGA Tour veteran, pioneer in junior golf within...
 


 
 

  Princeville Prince Golf Course Sets Reopening Date  

Princeville Prince, one of the top-ranked courses in Hawaii, has announced a reopening date of December 14th to unveil its renovations. 
 


 
 

  New Owners for Makaha Resort Golf Course  

Northwynd Resort Properties Ltd. ("Northwynd"), owner of Makaha Resort & Golf Club, has announced the sale of the resort's 18-hole ...
 


 
 

  The Green Highway - Stories from Golf in America: Waimea Country Club  

	

by George Fuller
   
Of the more than 15,000 golf courses in the U.S., there are precious few I've played where I've said to myself,...
 


 
 

  Princeville Course Being Renovated  

The renovation of the Prince Golf Course, located at Princeville Resort on Kauai's north shore, has been expanded to include additional...
 


 
 

  Mad About Maui  

	

by George Fuller
   
Celebrated author James A. Michener once referred to those of us irresistibly drawn to flecks of land in distan...
 


 
 

  Champions Tour Set to Tee Off New Season  

The 2011 Champions Tour will start the new season just as it has for the past 15 years, on Hawaii's Big Island for the Mitsubishi Electric Champion...
 


 
 

  Waikoloa Beach Resort to Host Unique College Golf Event   

The top collegiate golfers in the country are returning to the Big Island of Hawaii February 1-4 for the UH-HILO Men's College Golf Tournament. 
 


 
 

  Palmer Set to Defend in Sony Open   

Ryan Palmer notched his third career win on the PGA Tour in last year's Sony Open. The Texan is back in Hawaii for this week's event, which returns...
 


 
 

  Poipu Bay Reopens with New Turf  

Poipu Bay Golf Course, the former home of the PGA Grand Slam of Golf, was closed for nine months for a re-turfing project that involved con...
 


 


		
			
				 2011 Sony Open to be Aired in Live 3D  
			
				 Poipu Bay Set to Reopen in December  
			
				 Nicklaus Gives Thumbs-Up to Work at Kaua'i Lagoons  
			
				 Big Fun on the Big Island  
			
				 Water, Water Everywhere  
			
				 Work Finishing up at Makai Golf Club on Kauai  
			
				 Kona Country Club's Ocean Course to Get a Facelift  
			
				 Hoakalei Country Club Nearly Complete  
			
				 Pressel Named Touring Pro at Kapalua Resort  
			
				 Fujikawa to Turn Pro  
			
				 Ernie Els Visits New Course in Hawaii  
			
				 Longest Hole-in-One in History Recorded  
			
				 Kauai Honored as Hawaii?s No. 1 Island & Golf Shines Too  
			
				 Kaanapali North Undergoing Renovations   
			
				 The Rebirth of Kiahuna   
			
				 Puakea Golf Course Offers Incentives to Visitors  
			
				 The Scariest Golf Course in America   
			
				 Here Today, Gone to Maui  
			
		
	 

		 	

		 

		
		
			
		
			
			
				  Kauai  
			
			
			 
				  Puakea  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
				  Maui  
			
			
			 
				  Kaanapali Golf Courses  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		

		 
	 
 
	 
	
			   Course Updates  
			
		 

		 
			   Web Specials  
			
	  
		
    Clubhouse Updates  
						
					
				
					
						   Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
						   AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
						   bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					

 
	 
	 
		   Golfers looking for partners  


	
	 
	 
		
		
		 Tommy Ryan 
		 11/29/11 at 04:33PM
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	0 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 johnslakjs 
		 11/12/11 at 08:06AM
	 
	  Sample Business 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 golferrick22 
		 10/06/11 at 09:04AM
	 
	  findagolfer.com 
	5 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 jlara 
		 09/26/11 at 11:30AM
	 
	  Clear Creek Golf Course 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

 
 

 


	  
	  Ê
  

 
 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits