North Dakota golf news and courses - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

 


      


  
  
	  

  
   
 
	

 
 
  

  
 
 
	 
		    
		  Ê  
		    
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  Course Guide Home  
				  Golf News  
				  Contact Us  
				  Mobile  
				  Register Your Course  
			 
		 
	 
	
					
 

	 
	 
		 
 
    
   
     

     
   
    
 
  
 
	



	 

		   North Dakota Golf News   

		 

  Edgewood GC in Fargo to Get Remodel  

Following approval last year by the Fargo (N.D.) Park District, three holes prone to flooding on Edgewood Golf Course, one of five municipa...
 


 
 

  North Dakota Golf Trail Sets the State Apart  

	

by Jay Flemma
  
Let out a lusty yell if you've ever been to North Dakota.
   
***Cricket! Cricket! Cricket!***

 


 
 

  Palmer to Visit Course in North Dakota  

	

Arnold Palmer will visit King's Walk Golf Course in Grand Forks, N.D., on September 3. Palmer will be touring the course and answering questions fr...
 


 
 

  Innovative Design in North Dakota Unveiled  

	

Dignitaries and golfers recently attended the recent grand opening of a Phelps Golf Design project that may become one of the top teaching and prac...
 


 


		
	 

		 	

		 

		
		

		 
	 
 
	 
	
			   Course Updates  
			
		 

		 
			   Web Specials  
			
	  
		
    Clubhouse Updates  
						
					
				
					
						   Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
						   AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
						   bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					

 
	 
	 
		   Golfers looking for partners  


	
	 
	 
		
		
		 Tommy Ryan 
		 11/29/11 at 04:33PM
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	0 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 johnslakjs 
		 11/12/11 at 08:06AM
	 
	  Sample Business 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 golferrick22 
		 10/06/11 at 09:04AM
	 
	  findagolfer.com 
	5 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 jlara 
		 09/26/11 at 11:30AM
	 
	  Clear Creek Golf Course 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

 
 

 


	  
	  Ê
  

 
 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits