New York golf news and courses - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

 


      


  
  
	  

  
   
 
	

 
 
  

  
 
 
	 
		    
		  Ê  
		    
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  Course Guide Home  
				  Golf News  
				  Contact Us  
				  Mobile  
				  Register Your Course  
			 
		 
	 
	
					
 

	 
	 
		 
 
    
   
     

	

	

	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Timber Point Golf Course  Visit Clubhouse  150 River Rd. Great River, NY 11739 
 www.timberpointgolfcourse.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Crab Meadow Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  220 Waterside Road Northport, NY 11768 
 www.crabmeadowgolf.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Hollow Brook Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  1060 Oregon Road Cortlandt Manor, NY 10567 
 www.golfhollowbrook.com  
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Greenview Country Club  Visit Clubhouse  20 Whig Hill Road West Monroe , NY 13167 
 www.greenviewcc.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  4560 Creek Road Lewiston, NY 14092 
 www.senecahickorystick.com 
 
  
	 
	

     
   
    
 
  
 
	



	 

		   New York Golf News   

		 

  The Other St. George's  

	

by Jay Flemma
  
Never have I been so grateful that a friend has no sense of direction, because his colossal blunder in geography le...
 


 
 

  Woodmere Club Readies for Centennial  

In 2012, the Woodmere Club in Woodmere, N.Y., will celebrate its 100th anniversary. The club on Long Island's south shore has a storied pedigree an...
 


 
 

  Pound Ridge Golf Club - One of New York's Top Destinations  

	

Pound Ridge Golf Club, just north of New York City, is the Empire State's only Pete Dye design. Since its 2008 opening golfers have flocked to the ...
 


 
 

  The Architect's Progress - Jim Urbina at Paramount (Formerly Dellwood) Part 1: Meet the Golf Course  

	

by Jay Flemma
  
The name of this article comes from the title of a series of paintings called "The Rake's Progress" created by famo...
 


 
 

  Course Review: Seawane Country Club in Hewitt Harbor, N.Y.  

	

by Jay Flemma
  
It's tough being a small private country club in this economy, especially in hyper-competitive New York, where ther...
 


 
 

  Superintendent Has Westchester CC Ready for Senior Players Championship  

A rainy spring followed by a very hot and humid July were not exactly what GCSAA Certified Golf Course Superintendent Joe Alonzi was hoping for whe...
 


 
 

  Sleepy Hollow Country Club to Host Metropolitan Golf Open  

Sleepy Hollow Country Club in Scarborough, N.Y., will host the Metropolitan Golf Open Championship on August 23-25. More than 150 top amate...
 


 
 

  Renovations Planned for Metropolis CC in White Plains, N.Y.  

Metropolis Country Club will undergo a renovation project at the completion of the 2011 season that will upgrade a pair of par-4s, the fifth an...
 


 
 

  Shinnecock Hills to Host 2018 U.S. Open  

Shinnecock Hills Golf Club, in Southampton, N.Y., has been selected by the United States Golf Association as the site of the 2018 U.S. Open Champio...
 


 
 

  Historic New York Club to Host 2014 U.S. Women's Amateur  

Nassau Country Club in Glen Cove, N.Y., has been selected by the United States Golf Association to host the 2014 U.S. Women's Amateur C...
 


 


		
			
				 Nick of Time - Late Heroics Propel Gilliam to 101st Travis Championship at Garden City  
			
				 Top Seeds Power into Semis of 101st Travis Invitational  
			
				 Oh You Hans - some Devil! Albertsson Leads Trio of 69s Into Match Play Phase of Travis Invitational  
			
				 Our Green and Gothic Home  
			
				 The 101st Travis Invitational at Garden City - Christmas Comes for Amateurs  
			
				 Don't Say 'Shoulda, Woulda, Coulda' - Go Play Woodmere!  
			
				 Historic Schenectady Muni to Undergo Enhancements  
			
				 Urbina to Restore Tillinghast Classic in New York  
			
				 Tillinghast-Designed Course Gets New Owner  
			
				 Remodel of Wanakah CC Continues  
			
				 Robert Trent Jones' Records Donated to Cornell  
			
				 Follow-Up: 'Fore' Lawsuit in N.Y. Dismissed  
			
				 Fore Heavens Sake  
			
				 Pound Ridge is Dye-abolical & Fun  
			
				 Smith Wins Third U.S. Mid-Amateur Title  
			
				 Giuliani Auctioning Off Round to Benefit 9/11 Fireman  
			
				 Notah Begay III Foundation Course Crew Announces Participants  
			
				 Public Golf North of New York City  
			
				 New Course Opens in Empire State  
			
				 Glimmerglass, Leatherstocking & More  
			
				 'Big Ben' Chimes Midnight for Opponents, Wins 100th Travis Invitational  
			
				 Garden City Member, Best Friends Advance to Semifinals of 100th Travis Invitational  
			
				 Biggest Guy, Bigger Heart: Bel Air's Reneker Takes Medalist Honors to Open 100th Travis Invitational  
			
				 The Travis Invitational Turns 100 Years Young  
			
				 Guiding Eyes for the Blind's 33rd Annual Golf Classic Scheduled  
			
				 Ferry Point Taking Shape      
			
				 New York Golf Economy Report Shows Important Impact  
			
				 From Trash to Trophies: A New Golf Course Grows in the Bronx  
			
				 Metropolitan GCSA Annual Award Recipients  
			
				 Writer Takes on another Batch of Top 100 Courses  
			
				 Another 'Big Break' for Futures Tour Players  
			
				 Shooting Stars: Club Pros Like Kevin Roman Keep PGA Spirit Alive  
			
				 Glass Slipper Fits Like a Glover: Lucas wins 2009 U.S. Open  
			
				 U. S. Open in a New York State of Mind  
			
				 USGA to U.S. Open Fans at Bethpage: Have Fun but Behave  
			
				 The U.S. Open at Bethpage: The Song Remains the Same  
			
				 Lange Outlasts Lulla to Win 99th Travis Invitational  
			
				 Day 2 at the Travis: Hoit Defeats Two Former Champions in Semifinals  
			
				 Birdies, Blissful Skies & Buoyant Hearts Open the 99th Travis Invitational  
			
				 The Travis Invitational: The Grand Old Amateur Returns  
			
				 'Our Green and Gothic Home'  
			
				 Rock/Hip-hop Drummer uses Beats, Music to Lower Handicap  
			
				 Pound Ridge Set to Open July 1  
			
				 Pound Ridge Set to Open July 1  
			
				 Pound Ridge Set to Open July 1  
			
				 Diminutive Kelley Wins Travis Invitational  
			
				 Cold Rain, Warm Spirits as 98th Travis Invitational Begins  
			
				 The Grand Old Man, The Grand Old Club, The Grand Old Amateur  
			
				 The Art of the Bethpage Overnight - Part 1  
			
				 The Art of the Bethpage Overnight - Part 1  
			
				 Saint Andrew's Golf Club in N.Y. to Commemorate 120th Anniversary  
			
				 Long Island to be Promoted as Golf Destination  
			
				 Work Continues on Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club near Niagara Falls  
			
				 Golden Age U.S. Open Courses Improve with Age  
			
				 Sebonack Golf Club Celebrates Grand Opening   
			
				 Oak Hill to Host Future Senior PGA & PGA Championships   
			
				 Shinnecock Tribe Targets Private Clubs   
			
				 Belfrey International Gets New Owner and Brighter Future  
			
				 Trump Forms New Golf Company  
			
				 Turning Stone?s Kaluhyat Ranked High  
			
				 Leatherstocking & Otesaga Hotel   
			
				 Let There Be Light, Shirley   
			
				 Nicklaus & Doak To Collaborate On New York Course  
			
				 Classic Confrontation Afoot In Upstate New York  
			
		
	 

		 	

		 

		
		
			
		
			
		
			
		
			
			
				  Greater Buffalo / Western NY  
			
			
			 
				  Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
				  Greater New York City  
			
			
			 
				  Hollow Brook Golf Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
				  Long Island  
			
			
			 
				  Crab Meadow Golf Club  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Timber Point Golf Course  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
				  Syracuse Area  
			
			
			 
				  Greenview Country Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		

		 
	 
 
	 
	
			   Course Updates  
			
			  
					  
				  Metropolitan GCSA  January 18 - Winter Seminar  
		
			  
					  
				  Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club  New Golf Packages Coming Soon!  
		
			  
					  
				  Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club  New Restaurant Hours  
		
			  
					  
				  Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club  Restaurant Specials  
		
			  
					  
				  Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club  New November Rates!  
		
			  
					  
				  Metropolitan GCSA  November 30 - Education Seminar  
		
			  
					  
				  Metropolitan GCSA  December 9 - Christmas Party  
		
			  
					  
				  Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club  Check us out in the June issue of GOLF MAGAZINE!  
		
			  
					  
				  Greenview Country Club  Weekday Golf Special  
		
			  
					  
				  Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club  Save Money on Your Local Membership!  
		
		 

		 
			   Web Specials  
			
			  
					
  
				  Foursome for $100  Tradition at Monster Golf Club 
					
						09-29-11
					
					
						to 12-31-11
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  Weekend Getaway  Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club 
					
						08-06-10
					
					
						to 08-08-10
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  Saturday and Sunday  Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club 
					
						07-10-10
					
					
						to 07-11-10
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  Seneca Hickory Stick Opening for Preview Play  Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club 
					
						07-02-10
					
					
						to 07-19-10
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  test  Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club 
					
						06-01-10
					
					
						to 06-04-10
					
			  
		
	  
		
    Clubhouse Updates  
						
					
				
					
						   Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
						   AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
						   bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					

 
	 
	 
		   Golfers looking for partners  


	
	 
	 
		
		
		 Tommy Ryan 
		 11/29/11 at 04:33PM
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	0 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 johnslakjs 
		 11/12/11 at 08:06AM
	 
	  Sample Business 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 golferrick22 
		 10/06/11 at 09:04AM
	 
	  findagolfer.com 
	5 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 jlara 
		 09/26/11 at 11:30AM
	 
	  Clear Creek Golf Course 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

 
 

 


	  
	  Ê
  

 
 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits