Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   South Carolina  Ç Charleston 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Charleston Golf News  
			 

  Never a Dull Moment at Reynolds Plantation's Golf Courses  

	

by Steve Habel
  
Getting away from it all by not going too far away seems harder and harder in the 21st century. But the folks that...
 


 
 

  Q&A with a Grand Strand Veteran  

	

by Jeff Shelley
  
Visited annually by over 14 million tourists a year, the Grand Strand in South Carolina is home to a variety of a...
 


 
 

  Wexford Plantation Reopens after Remodel by "The King"  

Hilton Head Island, S.C., mayor Drew Laughlin proclaimed October 20, 2011, "Arnold Palmer Day" in conjunction with Palmer's ret...
 


 
 

  Hank Haney Developing Future of Golf on Hilton Head Island  

Tiger Woods, Charles Barkley, Ray Romano, Rush Limbaugh and Marta Silva have one thing in common: they've all been coached by Hank ...
 


 
 

  Enhancements at Harbour Town Complete  

	

Pete Dye has completed enhancements to Harbour Town Golf Links in Hilton Head Isle, S.C. The course is the home of the PGA Tour's RBC Heritage. 
 


 
 

  Country Club of Charleston to Host 2013 U.S. Women's Amateur  

The Country Club of Charleston in South Carolina has been selected by the United States Golf Association to host the 2013 U.S. Women's Amateur ...
 


 
 

  McConnell Golf Making a Name for Itself in the Carolinas  

	

by Joel Zuckerman
  
The company will never be as ubiquitous as Troon Golf, but in the "Old North State," McConnell Golf has rapidly...
 


 
 

  Sea Pines' Heron Point by Pete Dye Co-stars with Harbour Town Golf Links  

	

by David Wood
  
It's not easy for a golf course residing next to a superstar on every serious golfer's bucket list. However, the Pe...
 


 
 

  LPGA & USGA Team Up for New Event  

The LPGA and the United States Golf Association (USGA) have announced that they will co-host the inaugural LPGA-USGA Girls Golf Team Championship &...
 


 
 

  Heritage Gets New Sponsor  

Thanks to a team effort, the popular Heritage tournament in Hilton Head, S.C., is guaranteed to be played again in 2012. For the past two years the...
 


 


		
			
				 Sea Pines Resort's Heron Point Named One of America's 'Top 50 Courses for Women' by Golf Digest  
			
				 NYC Firefighters to Donate World Trade Center Beam to Myrtle Beach Holiday  
			
				 Santee Makes for Affordable Golf Getaway   
			
				 Dataw Island Club to Remodel Courses  
			
				 Hootie & The Blowfish Monday After The Masters Sold Out  
			
				 Will 2011 Heritage be its Last Hurrah?  
			
				 Palmer to Renovate Wexford Plantation on Hilton Head   
			
				 Myrtle Beach, Mystical Style  
			
				 Tickets to go On Sale for Monday After the Masters Celebrity Pro-Am   
			
				 Strantz-Designed Caledonia & True Blue Are Must-Plays in Myrtle Beach  
			
				 Trio of Courses Serve as Great Intro to Myrtle Beach  
			
				 Golf in Carolina's Low Country   
			
				 Trahan & Azar Win 2010 Hootie & The Blowfish Monday After Masters   
			
				 Hilton Head & Bluffton: Yesterday & Today  
			
				 Stars Aligned for Hootie & the Blowfish Monday After the Masters  
			
				 A Hidden Gem in Carolina's Low Country  
			
				 Plans Finishing Up on Renovations of River Oaks Golf Plantation  
			
				 Cape Fear National joins Carolinas' Brunswick Isles Golf Trail  
			
				 Callawassie Island Completes $4 Million Renovation  
			
				 Redesign & Renovation of CC of Spartanburg is Complete  
			
				 Dataw Island Club to Undergo Improvements  
			
				 Fazio Course at Barefoot Resort & Golf to Reopen July 1  
			
				 Coosaw Creek CC Hires Private Club Associates  
			
				 Mark Anderson: Remember This Name  
			
				 Fripp & Dataw Islands - Two Getaways in Carolina Lowcountry  
			
				 Southern Charm at Palmetto Bluff in South Carolina  
			
				 Carolinas PGA Section Moving to Grande Dunes   
			
				 Course at Keowee Springs Opens  
			
				 Fort Mill Reopens After Year-Long Renovation   
			
				 Spence Completes Renovation of Furman University GC  
			
				 Pine Lakes Country Club in Myrtle Beach Set for March 2009 Reopening  
			
				 Pine Lakes Country Club in Myrtle Beach Set for March 2009 Reopening  
			
				 The Sanctuary at Lake Russell to Feature Arthur Hills Course  
			
				 The Sanctuary at Lake Russell to Feature Arthur Hills Course  
			
				 40 Years of the Heritage  
			
				 Clyde Johnston to Renovate Fort Mill Golf Course  
			
				 Diamond Back to be Renamed Woodland Valley Country Club  
			
				 Dye Continues to Refine The Ocean Course at Kiawah Island  
			
				 Somewhere in Heaven, Mike Strantz is Smiling  
			
				 Barefoot Resort Adds Yacht Club & Golf School   
			
				 Frontier, Fazio Reopen River Course on Kiawah  
			
				 New Waccamaw Golf Trail Formed  
			
				 Kiawah Island Selected for 94th PGA Championship  
			
				 Haig Point to Receive Extensive Upgrades  
			
				 Player to Design Course for New Cliffs Communities? Project in S.C.  
			
				 Wild Wing Plantation Set to Close 45 Holes  
			
				 Pawleys Plantation Tour Trio Package Now Available  
			
				 Construction Underway at Carolina Lakes Golf Course   
			
				 Former Sea Gull GC to Undergo Major Transformation  
			
				 Grande Dunes Members Club Ready to Debut  
			
				 May I Borrow Your Alligator Ball Retriever?  
			
				 Sixes and Twelves ? Not Eighteens  
			
				 Rebirth of Carolina Downs  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Charleston
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Charleston Golf Courses 
			
 
 Dunes West Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 RiverTowne Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Patriots Point Links  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 




			 
		  Charleston Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits