Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Nebraska  Ç Greater Omaha 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Omaha Golf News  
			 

  Omaha Scores with Champions Run  

	

by Steve Habel
  
We 're often told in golf that success is in the dirt, whether it's working out issues on the driving range or bui...
 


 
 

  Nebraska's Woodland Hills and Highlands GC Examples of Fine Design  

	

by Steve Habel
   
There is a movement afoot in golf course design to build tracks that are less punitive and taxing to players and ...
 


 
 

  Landscapes Golf Group Partners with Kearney Country Club   

Landscapes Golf Group, a division of Landscapes Unlimited based in Lincoln, Neb., will provide management services for Kearney Country ...
 


 
 

  New 36-Hole Semiprivate Club Rising on the Nebraska Prairie  

	

When Paul Schock first laid eyes on Cleve Trimble's 2,500-acre stretch of land situated along the Snake River Canyon in the heart of Nebraska's San...
 


 
 

  Players Club at Deer Creek Starting $1.6M Addition  

The Players Club at Deer Creek in Omaha will continue its string of major additions when $1.6-million in new construction begins this fall. General...
 


 
 

  Omaha Country Club to Host 2013 U.S. Senior Open  

The United States Golf Association has announced that Omaha Country Club has been selected as the site for the 2013 U.S. Senior Open. The dates of ...
 


 
 

  Players Club at Deer Creek Moves toward Private Status  

	

by Mark Leslie
  
Combining nine new holes with a new pool complex, fitness room and other improvements, the Players Club at Deer Cr...
 


 
 

  Platteview CC Signs Management Contract with Landscapes Unlimited  

Culminating what began as an advisory relationship, Platteview Country Club in Bellevue, Neb., has signed Landscapes Unlimited Golf Gro...
 


 
 

  Dismal River Club Opens in Nebraska  

On August 5, Jack Nicklaus will be in Mullen, Neb., for the opening of his 250th golf course design. The first 18 holes at Dismal River Club occupy...
 


 
 

  Sand Hills GC to Have Neighbors  

The much-heralded Sand Hills Golf Club in Mullen, Neb., will soon have two neighboring golf courses that will seek to take advantage of the rolling...
 


 


		
			
				 Environmentally- Friendly Course Opens in Nebraska  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Omaha
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Omaha Golf Courses 
			
 
 Players Club   
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Pacific Springs  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 

 Ê  Web Specials  
 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Shoreline Golf Course  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Quarry Oaks Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Platteview Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Tiburon Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 

 Ê  Web Specials  
 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Ashland Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 




			 
		  Greater Omaha Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits