Duluth Needs Upgrades to Courses - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 


		  Featured Golf News  
		 Duluth Needs Upgrades to Courses 

		
		  
		 

	
		 
			
			 A consultant's report recommends that the city of Duluth invest millions of dollars to upgrade its municipal courses. The Minnesota city on Lake Superior, with a population of around 280,000, has two 27-hole muni golf facilities, Enger Park and Lester Park. 
		
	
		 
			
			 John Wait of National Golf Foundation Consulting Inc. said that the city's first priority should be to demolish Enger Park's clubhouse - which he described as "horrible" - and build a new one, adding that a replacement structure would cost about $1.35 million. 
		
	
		 
			
			 In comments to reporter Peter Passi of the Duluth News Tribute, Kathy Bergen, manager of Duluth's parks and recreation department, agreed with Wait's assessment. "We've known for years that clubhouse was inadequate. It's not accessible, and we know it needs to be replaced," she said. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Wait also found that Enger Park needs a new irrigation system, another big ticket item estimated to cost $1.5 million. The current watering system is over 30 years old and takes a beating during Duluth's harsh winters.  
		
	
		 
			
			 "As cool as we think our summers are up here, the grass dries out pretty quickly," Jeff Anderson, operations manager for Duluth's parks and recreation, told Passi, adding that an upgraded irrigation system would help maintenance staff sustain a higher quality to Enger Park's greens and fairways. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Wait also suggests other improvements at Enger Park, including upgrades to the drainage system, greens, bunkers and cart paths. With the addition of two new on-course restrooms, the revamping of the facility - based on Wait's full laundry list - rises to $4.3 million. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Wait recommends making about $2.9 million in improvements at Lester Park. These would include clubhouse upgrades, a new irrigation system and new on-course restrooms.  
		
	
		 
			
			 But he said Enger Park should be the primary focus, at least initially. "Enger Park has potential to become a cash cow, in my opinion," Wait told Passi. 
		
	
		 
			
			 The two facilities do pretty well during Duluth's short golf season. In 2010 Enger Park hosted about 57,000 rounds, while Lester Park had about 45,000. Both courses broke even this year, according to Bergen. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Duluth has nearly paid off the improvements made to its courses 20 years ago. In 2012, it will eliminate the final $233,000 debt payment, thus making it easier for the city to assume new debt for capital improvements.   For Passi's full story, visit  http://www.duluthnewstribune.com/event/article/id/215264/group/sports/ .  
		
	

		 
		  
		   ('Õ)  
		    
		      
		 
		 
		 

		 
		 
			
  
		 

		 Story Options 
		 
			 
				  
				  Send to a friend  
			 
			 
				    

				  Print this Story  
			 
			 
				    
				  Recommend this story  
			 
		 
		 
		 
		 GolfVite Updates 
				 
				
					
				
					
					  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
					  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
					  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
				 


		 
		    
		 
		 Headlines 
			 
					
				  Irish Team Disappointed in Final Round of World Cup  
				
				  Kuchar & Woodland Thrilled with World Cup Win  
				
				  Oldest Surviving Member of PGA Dies  
				
				  Never a Dull Moment at Reynolds Plantation's Golf Courses  
				
				  USA Rallies to Win World Cup  
				
			 

		 
		
		 
		 Related News 
			 
					
				  Duluth Area to Get New Course  
				
				  StoneRidge Receives Honor  
				
				  Work Continues at Second Giants Ridge Course  
				
				  Update on Fortune Bay Resort  
				
				  Update on Fortune Bay Resort  
				
			 
		 
	
	 
	  


 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits