Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Oklahoma  Ç Tulsa Area 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Tulsa Area Golf News  
			 

  Jimmie Austin OU Golf Club to Host 2013 U.S. Women's Amateur Public Links  

Jimmie Austin OU Golf Club in Norman, Okla., has been selected by the United States Golf Association to host the 2013 U.S. Women's Amat...
 


 
 

  LSU's Peterson Wins NCAA Championship  

Louisiana State's John Peterson shot a 72 Thursday to win the NCAA Men's Golf Championship. He finished 54 holes at Karsten Creek in Stillw...
 


 
 

  Match-Play Component Evens Playing Field in NCAA Men's Golf Championship  

by Tony Dear
  
You'd be hard pressed to come up with a plausible argument as to why Oklahoma State University isn't going to win it...
 


 
 

  Golden Age Flair for Two Tulsa Courses  

	

by Steve Habel
   
Imagine living in northeastern Oklahoma in the Roaring '20s as golf took a foothold in this part of America. In T...
 


 
 

  Fowler Discusses Upcoming Season  

Though a month away, the World Golf Championships Accenture Match Play Championship got rolling Tuesday with a media session to discuss this year's...
 


 
 

  Sisters Get Aces in Same Round  

Two sisters on the Central Oklahoma golf team got holes-in-one in the same round. Erica and Lindsey Bensch each pulled off the feat Tuesday at Kick...
 


 
 

  Oklahoma State Tops Men's College Poll  

The third Golf World/NGCA Division I Men's Coaches' Poll of the fall season has been released, combining the resources of Golf World ma...
 


 
 

  Work Continues on Tulsa CC  

Rees Jones is working on a carefully orchestrated, cost-effective course renovation of Tulsa Country Club in Oklahoma. The club, which date...
 


 
 

  Tasty Home Cooking in Tulsa by Heckenkemper   

	

by Steve Habel
  
There is an old axiom that, when paraphrased, says most recognition for work well done is reaped from afar. Someti...
 


 
 

  OSU Tops Preseason Men's College Golf Poll   

For the second straight year, Oklahoma State sits atop Division I's preseason men's college poll. The Cowboys, runner-ups at last year's NCAA Champ...
 


 


		
			
				 Visual Feast & Great Design Herald Success at Patriot GC  
			
				 Inaugural Patriot Cup Set for Memorial Day Weekend at New Patriot GC  
			
				 OKC's Lake Hefner North Golf Course is a Municipal Jewel  
			
				 The Old Still Defines the New at Jimmie Austin OU Golf Club  
			
				 Revived Oak Tree National Demands its Pound of Flesh  
			
				 Kite's Work at Gaillardia Brings Hazards to Forefront  
			
				 Golf in Southern Oklahoma Boosted by Homes & Native American Gaming  
			
				 Remodel of Oak Tree National Complete  
			
				 The Patriot Designed by Robert Trent Jones II  
			
				 The Patriot Designed by Robert Trent Jones II  
			
				 The Territory in Southwest Oklahoma   
			
				 Stonebridge Near Tulsa Opens for Play   
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Tulsa Area
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Tulsa Area Golf Courses 
			
 
 Forest Ridge Golf Course  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Meadowbrook Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Patricia Island Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



			 
		  Tulsa Area Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits