Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   New Mexico  Ç Greater Albuquerque 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Albuquerque Golf News  
			 

  Coming Up for Cool Air at New Mexico's Angel Fire Resort  

	

by Steve Habel
  
These days, when escaping the heat is seemingly at the forefront of the minds of many Americans, finding someplace...
 


 
 

  Black Mesa - Wild & Crazy Fun in Santa Fe  

	

by Steve Habel
  
The New Mexico desert can - at first glance - seem austere and bleak, with sand and scrub brush and rock dominatin...
 


 
 

  Nicklaus's Work at Las Campanas Departure from the Norm  

	

by Steve Habel
  
The two spectacular golf courses at the Club at Las Campanas in a suburb of Santa Fe, N.M., offer members and fort...
 


 
 

  Santa Fe's Love of Art & Nature Shown Local Golf Courses  

	

by Steve Habel
  
The Santa Fe, N.M., area is world-renowned for its contribution to and love of the arts, and a special sensitivity...
 


 
 

  Expansive Sandia GC is Downright Friendly  

	

By Steve Habel
  
There's nothing small about the Sandia Resort & Casino just north of Albuquerque, whether it's the huge hotel and ...
 


 
 

  Big, Bold Features Highlight Stunning Paa-Ko Ridge   

	

by Steve Habel
  
On the eastern slopes of New Mexico's Sandia Mountains 20 miles from Albuquerque and 45 miles from Santa Fe, golf ...
 


 
 

  New Golf Organization Created in New Mexico & West Texas   

The leading golf entities in New Mexico and West Texas created the Sun Country Golf House. The Sun Country PGA and the Sun Country Amateur Golf Ass...
 


 
 

  Santa Ana Pueblo near Albuquerque Offers 45 Great Holes  

	

by Steve Habel
  
Some 15 miles north of Albuquerque on rolling desert at the base of the Sandia Mountains, the sacred land of the S...
 


 
 

  Finding Great Golf in New Mexico Easier than Spelling Albuquerque  

	

by Steve Habel
  
Though more than 4 million tourists flock to New Mexico's high-desert city of Albuquerque, it would be interesting...
 


 
 

  Taos Country Club Hosts Taos Amateur Golf Tournament  

Taos Country Club will host the Taos Amateur golf tournament, scheduled Saturday and Sunday, September 11-12. The tournament is open to all...
 


 


		
			
				 Doak to Design New Course at Black Mesa Golf Club  
			
				 Two Great New Courses in New Mexico  
			
				 Head for the Mountains - of Southern New Mexico  
			
				 Head for the Mountains - of Southern New Mexico  
			
				 Black Mesa Golf Media Week - Part 3  
			
				 Black Mesa Golf Media Week - Part II  
			
				 Black Mesa Golf Media Week - Gilligan's Island with Dinosaurs  
			
				 Golf Tourism Alliance Formed in New Mexico  
			
				 New Mexico Golf on the Upswing  
			
				 Angel Fire Set to Become New Mexico?s First Audubon Course  
			
				 Nicklaus Design to Handle Course at Massive New Development  
			
				 Brauer Redesigning New Mexico Highlands University Course  
			
				 Black Mesa GC Honored  
			
				 Beauty is More than Skin Deep  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Albuquerque
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Albuquerque Golf Courses 
			
 
 Paa-Ko Ridge GC  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Sandia Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Golf on Santa Fe Trail  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



			 
		  Greater Albuquerque Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits