Golf Lessons and Tips - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 

	 Golf Lessons and Tips 
	

		 

  Improve Your Pitch Shots  

	

by Kiran Kanwar
  
In a pitch shot, the ball gains quick height and lands softly on the green with hardly any run after it lands. A ...
 


 
 

  Improve Your Chipping - Part II  

	

by Kiran Kanwar
  
In a chip shot, the ball has just enough height to land safely on the green, after which it rolls along the groun...
 


 
 

  Improve Your Chipping - Part I  

	

by Kiran Kanwar
  
With a chip shot the ball needs just enough height to land safely on the green, after which it rolls along the gr...
 


 
 

  Start Making Short Putts  

	

by Kiran Kanwar
   
Many golfers find it easy to lag long putts up close to a hole from several feet away, but then frequently miss ...
 


 
 

  Simplifying the Chip Shot  

	

by Kiran Kanwar
  
Have you ever stopped to wonder if the golf swing really needs to be so complicated - twist this, turn that, bend...
 


 
 

  The Performance You Really Want  

	

by Bob Duncan
  
It's April 2009, we've enjoyed another great Masters tournament and you're still wishing you could hit either that ...
 


 
 

  The Minimalist Golf Swing - Part II  

	

by Kiran Kanwar
  
If you happened to read "The Minimalist Golf Swing - better Distance, Direction and Trajectory for Any Golfer" an...
 


 
 

  GolfeCoach Released  

The GolfeCoach is an intensive, unique coaching system that delves deep into the personal development of aspiring golfers. It allows golfers to dis...
 


 
 

  The Minimalist Golf Swing - Get Better Distance, Direction & Trajectory  

	

by Kiran Kanwar
  
Weekend golfers of the world unite! You play once a week if you're lucky, prefer the 19th to all the other holes,...
 


 
 

  Bringing Order to the Anarchy - Knowledge  

	

by Bob Duncan
  
Do you really want to play better golf? C'mon, really? Everything you need to play better golf and succeed i...
 


 



		
			
				 Bringing Order to the Anarchy: My Five Golf New Year's Resolutions!  
			
				 Bringing Order to the Anarchy - Swing Planes?  
			
				 Bringing Order to Anarchy - On-Course Changes  
			
				 Bringing Order to Anarchy - Your Arrows  
			
				 Bringing Order to Anarchy  
			
				 Confused About Playing Golf?  
			
				 Chipping Lesson  
			
				 Cybergolf Putting Lessons  
			
				 Developing the Magic of Visualization  
			
				 Losing Your Fears  
			
				 'At what age should I start my child taking golf lessons?'  
			
				 The Art of Detachment  
			
				 Expanding Your Comfort Zone  
			
				 Peace & Par: You Paid the Green Fees, Why not Enjoy the Round?  
			
				 Clear & Present  
			
				 Contradiction & Confluence  
			
				 The Peaceful Mind  
			
				 Preventing Meltdowns on the Golf Course  
			
				 The Seven Myths of Golf - Part 1  
			
		
	

	 

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits