North Carolina golf news and courses - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

 


      


  
  
	  

  
   
 
	

 
 
  

  
 
 
	 
		    
		  Ê  
		    
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  Course Guide Home  
				  Golf News  
				  Contact Us  
				  Mobile  
				  Register Your Course  
			 
		 
	 
	
					
 

	 
	 
		 
 
    
   
     

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				



  Tradition at The Preserve  Visit Clubhouse  840 The Preserve Trail  Chapel Hill, NC 27517 
 www.thepreservegolf.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Tradition at Falls Village  Visit Clubhouse  115 Falls Village Dr. Durham, NC 27703 
 www.fallsvillagegolf.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Tradition at Chapel Ridge  Visit Clubhouse  1010 Chapel Ridge Drive Pittsboro, NC 27312 
 www.chapelridgegolfclub.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Tradition at Carolina National  Visit Clubhouse  1643 Goley Hewett Road SE Bolivia, NC 28422 
 www.carolinanationalgolf.com 
 
  
	 
	

	

	

	

	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  The Country Club of Whispering Pines  Visit Clubhouse  2 Clubhouse Blvd. Whispering Pines, NC 28327 
 www.countryclubofwhisperingpines.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Legacy Golf Links  Visit Clubhouse  12615 HWY 15-501 South Aberdeen, NC 28315 
 www.legacygolfnc.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Foxfire Resort & Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  9 Foxfire Blvd. Foxfire Village, NC 27281 
 www.foxfireresortandgolf.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				



  Forest Creek Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse   Pinehurst, NC 28374 
 www.forestcreekgolfclub.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  The Tradition Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  3800 Prosperity Church Road Charlotte, NC 28269 
 www.thetraditiongolfclub.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  The Divide Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  6803 Stevens Mill Road Matthews, NC 28104 
 www.thedividegolfclub.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Skybrook  Visit Clubhouse  14720 Northgreen Drive Huntersville, NC 28078 
 www.skybrookgolf.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Highland Creek Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  7101 Highland Creek Parkway Charlotte, NC 28269 
 www.highlandcreekgolfclub.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Charlotte Golf Links  Visit Clubhouse  11500 Providence Road Charlotte, NC 28277 
 www.charlottegolflinks.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Birkdale Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  16500 Birkdale Commons Parkway Huntersville, NC 28078 
 www.birkdale.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Sedgefield Country Club  Visit Clubhouse  3201 Forsyth Dr. Greensboro, NC 27407 
 www.sedgefieldcc.org 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Salem Glen Country Club  Visit Clubhouse  1000 Glen Day Drive Clemmons, NC 27012 
 www.salemglen.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  High Meadows Country Club  Visit Clubhouse  1288 Country Club Rd. Roaring Gap, NC 28668 
 www.highmeadowscountryclub.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Greensboro National Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  330 Niblick Drive Summerfield, NC 27358 
 www.greensboronationalgolfclub.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Sapphire National Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  50 Slicers Avenue Sapphire, NC 28774 
 www.sapphirenationalgolf.com  
 
  
	 
	

     
   
    
 
  
 
	



	 

		   North Carolina Golf News   

		 

  Traditional Golf Properties Acquires Falls Village Golf Club in Durham  

Traditional Golf Properties and a team of investors have acquired Falls Village Golf Club in Durham, N.C., expanding their cluster in the R...
 


 
 

  American Hero & Expert Golfer Endorses Heroes Crusade Tournament   

Brian "Ski" Donarski had little patience for the challenging game of golf several years ago. Fast forward to today, and you'll find a guy t...
 


 
 

  Peggy Kirk Bell Turns 90 This Month   

One of golf's grand ladies will celebrate her 90th birthday on October 28. Peggy Kirk Bell, the popular long-time owner of the Pine Needles...
 


 
 

  Perry Secures First Champions Tour Victory  

Kenny Perry closed with a 2-under 70 to notch his first victory on the Champions Tour. The 51-year-old Kentuckian was propelled to the win in the S...
 


 
 

  Forest Creek GC in Southern Pines to Host 2013 U.S. Mid-Amateur  

Forest Creek Golf Club near the Village of Pinehurst has been selected by the United States Golf Association to host the 2013 U.S. Mid-Amateur Cham...
 


 
 

  Golf Courses in North Carolina's Outer Banks Open for Labor Day  

Despite absorbing a direct hit from Hurricane Irene, North Carolina's Outer Banks are preparing for a busy Labor Day travel weekend and fal...
 


 
 

  Remodeled Highlands Course at Prestonwood to be Unveiled Labor Day Weekend  

The Highlands Course, the third 18 of Prestonwood's 54 holes redesigned by resident golf course architect Rick Robbins, is set to reope...
 


 
 

  McConnell Golf Reverses Fortunes of Sedgefield Country Club  

In February, after McConnell Golf purchased Sedgefield Country Club in Raleigh, N.C., Wyndham Championship tournament director Mark Bra...
 


 
 

  Dufner Moves on After Final Round at PGA Championship  

Jason Dufner has left last week's PGA Championship in his rear-view mirror. On Sunday, the Auburn, Ala., resident enjoyed a five-stroke lead on the...
 


 
 

  McConnell Golf Making a Name for Itself in the Carolinas  

	

by Joel Zuckerman
  
The company will never be as ubiquitous as Troon Golf, but in the "Old North State," McConnell Golf has rapidly...
 


 


		
			
				 Griffin Wins Second Straight U.S. Kids Golf Teen World Championship  
			
				 Legacy Golf Links Chooses Mini Verdi? for New Greens  
			
				 Sifford Honored in Charlotte  
			
				 'Other' Woods Wins Title  
			
				 Work at Pinehurst No. 2 Completed; Reopens for Play  
			
				 Pinehurst No. 2 Reopens  
			
				 North Carolina Pro Bob Boyd Dies  
			
				 McConnell Golf Buys Host Site of Wyndham Championship in Greensboro  
			
				 Remodel Completed at Bald Head Island Club off North Carolina's Coast  
			
				 South Course at Carmel CC Renovated by Rees Jones  
			
				 Simson Wins U.S. Senior Amateur  
			
				 Agreement Reduces Trout Stream Impacts from Cliffs at High Carolina Golf Course  
			
				 Quail Hollow Selected for 2017 PGA Championship  
			
				 River Landing 18 Gets New Turf  
			
				 The Glories of Pinehurst  
			
				 Coore & Crenshaw to Oversee Pinehurst No. 2 Remodel  
			
				 Cape Fear National joins Carolinas' Brunswick Isles Golf Trail  
			
				 Tot Hill Farm to Host 1st Annual Mike Strantz Memorial Tournament  
			
				 North Carolina Course Converting to Paspalum Greens  
			
				 N.C. Golf Industry Drives $5.3 Billion in Economic Benefit   
			
				 McConnell Golf Expands its Network of Clubs in the Carolinas  
			
				 CC of Carolina to Host 2010 U.S. Girls' Junior Championship  
			
				 Work Continues at Brunswick Forest and Cape Fear National  
			
				 New Training Device Helps Golfers Hone Putting Ability; PGA Tour caddie Mike Hicks among Developers Of 'The Big Putt'  
			
				 Development in North Carolina Sold  
			
				 Bear Lake Reserve Opens Nicklaus Course  
			
				 Lake Toxaway to be Unveiled in August  
			
				 New Course in N.C. Gets Name  
			
				 New Course in N.C. Gets Name  
			
				 Spence Involved in Three Projects  
			
				 Golf to Assist Marines at Camp Lejeune  
			
				 Work Continues on Large Project Near Wilmington, N.C.  
			
				 Work Continues on Ginn Laurelmor Resort  
			
				 Olde Sycamore Back in Shape   
			
				 Mickelson Finalizing Design for River Rock in North Carolina  
			
				 Tiger Woods to Design First American Course In North Carolina  
			
				 'New' MVC Clubhouse Unveiled After Major Renovation  
			
				 Phase I of Golf Course Redesign is Complete at Lake Toxaway  
			
				 Nicklaus Advises Upgrades at National GC  
			
				 Spence to Renovate Sedgefield CC  
			
				 Nicklaus Course Planned for Mountains of Western Carolina  
			
				 Expanded Clubhouse at Maggie Valley Club Now Underway  
			
				 Redesign of Lake Toxaway Course Continues  
			
				 Brunswick Plantation to be Renovated  
			
				 New Course Underway at White Oak Plantation  
			
				 Davis Love?s Design Company Getting Busy  
			
				 Spence to Restore Historic Cape Fear Course   
			
				 Love & Tommy Fazio Architects for New Preserve at Greyson  
			
				 Fred Couples Involved in New North Carolina Golf Course  
			
				 Golf Resort Coming to Camden County N.C.  
			
				 Historic Plantation to Become Resort Community  
			
				 'Crazy' Owners Have Fun with Golf Course  
			
				 Discover the Joys of Golf North of Myrtle Beach  
			
		
	 

		 	

		 

		
		
			
		
			
		
			
		
			
		
			
			
				  Charlotte Area  
			
			
			 
				  Birkdale Golf Club  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Charlotte Golf Links  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Highland Creek Golf Club  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Skybrook  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  The Divide Golf Club  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  The Tradition Golf Club  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
				  Greater Greensboro  
			
			
			 
				  Greensboro National Golf Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  High Meadows Country Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Salem Glen Country Club  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Sedgefield Country Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
				  Pinehurst Area  
			
			
			 
				  Forest Creek Golf Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Foxfire Resort & Golf Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Legacy Golf Links  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  The Country Club of Whispering Pines  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
				  Raleigh/Durham  
			
			
			 
				  Tradition at Chapel Ridge  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Tradition at Falls Village  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Tradition at The Preserve  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
				  Sapphire  
			
			
			 
				  Sapphire National Golf Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
				  Wilmington Area  
			
			
			 
				  Tradition at Carolina National  
				  
				  
			 
			
		

		 
	 
 
	 
	
			   Course Updates  
			
			  
					  
				  High Meadows Country Club  Upcoming Events  
		
			  
					  
				  High Meadows Country Club  This Week  
		
			  
					  
				  Foxfire Resort & Golf Club  Golf Shop Sale!  
		
			  
					  
				  Brunswick Forest Fitness & Wellness Center  Holiday Fitness Fest  
		
			  
					  
				  Brunswick Forest Fitness & Wellness Center  Cake Demo  
		
			  
					  
				  Brunswick Forest Fitness & Wellness Center  Blood Drive  
		
			  
					  
				  Brunswick Forest Fitness & Wellness Center  Tennis Tournament  
		
			  
					  
				  The Country Club of Whispering Pines  Winter Stay and Play Specials and Easter Specials  
		
			  
					  
				  Foxfire Resort & Golf Club  Pink Ribbon Golf Tournament - Help Support the Cause!   
		
			  
					  
				  The Country Club of Whispering Pines  Thanksgiving at CCWP  
		
		 

		 
			   Web Specials  
			
			  
					
  
				  Thanksgiving Weekend Sale!  Cape Fear National 
					
						11-25-11
					
					
						to 11-27-11
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  No Trick . . . Our Treat  (This special valid to local golfers - residing in surrounding 5 counties)  Cape Fear National 
					
						10-26-11
					
					
						to 11-06-11
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  Sunday Special  The Country Club of Whispering Pines 
					
						10-30-11
					
					
						to 10-30-11
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  Fall Three For All  Cape Fear National 
					
						10-16-11
					
					
						to 11-01-11
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  $10 Off Coupon  Tradition at Raleigh 
					
						10-01-11
					
					
						to 10-31-11
					
			  
		
	  
		
    Clubhouse Updates  
						
					
				
					
						   Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
						   AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
						   bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					

 
	 
	 
		   Golfers looking for partners  


	
	 
	 
		
		
		 Tommy Ryan 
		 11/29/11 at 04:33PM
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	0 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 johnslakjs 
		 11/12/11 at 08:06AM
	 
	  Sample Business 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 golferrick22 
		 10/06/11 at 09:04AM
	 
	  findagolfer.com 
	5 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 jlara 
		 09/26/11 at 11:30AM
	 
	  Clear Creek Golf Course 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

 
 

 


	  
	  Ê
  

 
 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits