Golf Architecture News - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 

	 Golf Architecture News 
	

		 

  Favorite Designers: H. Chandler Egan  

	

by Tony Dear
  
Unless you play golf in the Pacific Northwest where H. Chandler Egan lived and worked for the second half of his all...
 


 
 

  The Architect's Progress - Jim Urbina at Paramount (Formerly Dellwood) Part 1: Meet the Golf Course  

	

by Jay Flemma
  
The name of this article comes from the title of a series of paintings called "The Rake's Progress" created by famo...
 


 
 

  Favorite Designers: H.S. Colt  

	

by Tony Dear
  
It has been said that H.S. Colt's course design legacy is diminished by the fact he never built an all-defining layo...
 


 
 

  Favorite Designers: Alister Mackenzie  

	

by Tony Dear
  
It's quite likely that Alister Mackenzie is the very first golf course architect golfers become familiar with. It's ...
 


 
 

  Favorite Designers: Old Tom Morris  

	

by Tony Dear
  
Of all the architects/designers included in this series, Old Tom Morris was always going to be the trickiest to prof...
 


 
 

  Favorite Designers: Keith Foster  

	

by Tony Dear
  
Ask a golf course architect to name another golf course architect whose work he admires and 99 times out of 100 he w...
 


 
 

  Favorite Designers: John Fought  

	

by Tony Dear
  
Seven years ago, I played a course called Washington National in Auburn, Wash., without having the slightest clue wh...
 


 
 

  Favorite Designers - Tom Doak  

	

by Tony Dear
  
With new jobs barely trickling into his or any other architect's office, Tom Doak has been forced to make several ch...
 


 
 

  Favorite Designers: Stanley Thompson  

	

by Tony Dear
  
It might seem unreasonable, unjustifiable even, that anyone could list a certain course architect among his favorite...
 


 
 

  Favorite Golf Course Designers: James Braid  

	

by Tony Dear
  
Every golfer alive has his/her own favorite golf course. Often times we can't specify exactly why a particular layou...
 


 



		
			
				 Robert von Hagge Passes  
			
				 Extreme Clubhouse Makeover: Is it Time to Consider a Major Renovation?  
			
				 Renovating Bunkers: Five Factors to Consider  
			
				 Golf Course Master Planning  
			
				 Fitzpatrick Set to Re-join GolfScapes  
			
				 The Evolving Golf Club Model - Capturing the Character of a 19th Hole  
			
				 The Golf Club of the Future  
			
				 Weighing 'Feel' in Golf Course Design  
			
				 Is a Course Fair or Reasonable?  
			
				 The Rhythm of Strategy  
			
				 Architects say Design Affects Efficient Water Use  
			
				 Architect Updates Sweetgrass Golf Club  
			
				 Sweetgrass Golf Club at Island Resort & Casino - Part 4  
			
				 Sweetgrass Golf Club at the Island Resort & Casino - Part 3  
			
				 Sweetgrass Golf Club at the Island Resort & Casino - Part 2  
			
				 Crafting a Golf Course in Michigan's Upper Peninsula - Part 1  
			
				 The Genesis of Designing a Course  
			
				 A Day in the Dirt with Doak  
			
				 Grand Opening of the Quarry at Giants Ridge - Part 15  
			
				 Everything You Wanted to Know About Golf Architecture, But Were Afraid to Ask  
			
				 Hole-By-Hole and as a Whole, I Love This Course - Part 14  
			
				 Design Changes in the Field - Part 13  
			
				 The Guiding Design Objects at the Quarry - Part 12  
			
				 Underground: Treasure Troves & Unsightly Things - Part 11  
			
				 Irish Influences on Northern Minnesota Golf? Oh, Yes! - Part 10  
			
				 The Construction of the Golf Course at Giant's Ridge - Part 9  
			
				 The Construction of the Golf Course at Giants Ridge - Part 8  
			
				 The Construction of the Golf Course at Giants Ridge - Part 7  
			
				 The Construction of the Golf Course at Giants Ridge - Part 6  
			
				 Routing Plans for the Second Golf Course at Giants Ridge - Part 5  
			
				 The Construction of the Second Golf Course at Giants Ridge - Part 4  
			
				 The Bid Process: Nailing Down the Financials at Giant's Ridge - Part 3   
			
				 Site Selection: Or How To Avoid a   
			
				 Following Some Giant Footsteps - Part 1  
			
		
	

	 

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits