New Mexico golf news and courses - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

 


      


  
  
	  

  
   
 
	

 
 
  

  
 
 
	 
		    
		  Ê  
		    
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  Course Guide Home  
				  Golf News  
				  Contact Us  
				  Mobile  
				  Register Your Course  
			 
		 
	 
	
					
 

	 
	 
		 
 
    
   
     

	

	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Sandia Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  30 Rainbow Road NE Albuquerque, NM 87113 
 www.sandiagolf.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Paa-Ko Ridge GC  Visit Clubhouse  One Clubhouse Drive Sandia Park, NM 87047 
 www.paakoridge.com 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Golf on Santa Fe Trail  Visit Clubhouse  110 Roehl Road NW Albuquerque, NM 87107 
 www.golfonthesantafetrail.com  
 
  
	 
	

     
   
    
 
  
 
	



	 

		   New Mexico Golf News   

		 

  Coming Up for Cool Air at New Mexico's Angel Fire Resort  

	

by Steve Habel
  
These days, when escaping the heat is seemingly at the forefront of the minds of many Americans, finding someplace...
 


 
 

  Black Mesa - Wild & Crazy Fun in Santa Fe  

	

by Steve Habel
  
The New Mexico desert can - at first glance - seem austere and bleak, with sand and scrub brush and rock dominatin...
 


 
 

  Nicklaus's Work at Las Campanas Departure from the Norm  

	

by Steve Habel
  
The two spectacular golf courses at the Club at Las Campanas in a suburb of Santa Fe, N.M., offer members and fort...
 


 
 

  Santa Fe's Love of Art & Nature Shown Local Golf Courses  

	

by Steve Habel
  
The Santa Fe, N.M., area is world-renowned for its contribution to and love of the arts, and a special sensitivity...
 


 
 

  Expansive Sandia GC is Downright Friendly  

	

By Steve Habel
  
There's nothing small about the Sandia Resort & Casino just north of Albuquerque, whether it's the huge hotel and ...
 


 
 

  Big, Bold Features Highlight Stunning Paa-Ko Ridge   

	

by Steve Habel
  
On the eastern slopes of New Mexico's Sandia Mountains 20 miles from Albuquerque and 45 miles from Santa Fe, golf ...
 


 
 

  New Golf Organization Created in New Mexico & West Texas   

The leading golf entities in New Mexico and West Texas created the Sun Country Golf House. The Sun Country PGA and the Sun Country Amateur Golf Ass...
 


 
 

  Santa Ana Pueblo near Albuquerque Offers 45 Great Holes  

	

by Steve Habel
  
Some 15 miles north of Albuquerque on rolling desert at the base of the Sandia Mountains, the sacred land of the S...
 


 
 

  Finding Great Golf in New Mexico Easier than Spelling Albuquerque  

	

by Steve Habel
  
Though more than 4 million tourists flock to New Mexico's high-desert city of Albuquerque, it would be interesting...
 


 
 

  Taos Country Club Hosts Taos Amateur Golf Tournament  

Taos Country Club will host the Taos Amateur golf tournament, scheduled Saturday and Sunday, September 11-12. The tournament is open to all...
 


 


		
			
				 Doak to Design New Course at Black Mesa Golf Club  
			
				 Two Great New Courses in New Mexico  
			
				 Head for the Mountains - of Southern New Mexico  
			
				 Head for the Mountains - of Southern New Mexico  
			
				 Black Mesa Golf Media Week - Part 3  
			
				 Black Mesa Golf Media Week - Part II  
			
				 Black Mesa Golf Media Week - Gilligan's Island with Dinosaurs  
			
				 Golf Tourism Alliance Formed in New Mexico  
			
				 New Mexico Golf on the Upswing  
			
				 Angel Fire Set to Become New Mexico?s First Audubon Course  
			
				 Nicklaus Design to Handle Course at Massive New Development  
			
				 Brauer Redesigning New Mexico Highlands University Course  
			
				 Black Mesa GC Honored  
			
				 Beauty is More than Skin Deep  
			
		
	 

		 	

		 

		
		
			
		
			
		
			
			
				  Greater Albuquerque  
			
			
			 
				  Golf on Santa Fe Trail  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Paa-Ko Ridge GC  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Sandia Golf Club  
				  
				   
					 
			 
			
		

		 
	 
 
	 
	
			   Course Updates  
			
			  
					  
				  Sandia Golf Club  Book Your Golf Tournament at Sandia Golf Club  
		
			  
					  
				  Sandia Golf Club  Winter Rates are Here!!!  
		
			  
					  
				  Sandia Golf Club  Free OB Sports Golf Course Apps!!!  
		
		 

		 
			   Web Specials  
			
			  
					
  
				  Back to School Special  Sandia Golf Club 
					
						08-15-11
					
					
						to 08-17-11
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  Holiday Merchandise SALE  Paa-Ko Ridge GC 
					
						11-22-03
					
					
						to 12-12-03
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  FREE Logo Ball Special  Paa-Ko Ridge GC 
					
						10-21-03
					
					
						to 11-30-03
					
			  
		
	  
		
    Clubhouse Updates  
						
					
				
					
						   Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
						   AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
						   bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					

 
	 
	 
		   Golfers looking for partners  


	
	 
	 
		
		
		 Tommy Ryan 
		 11/29/11 at 04:33PM
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	0 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 johnslakjs 
		 11/12/11 at 08:06AM
	 
	  Sample Business 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 golferrick22 
		 10/06/11 at 09:04AM
	 
	  findagolfer.com 
	5 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 jlara 
		 09/26/11 at 11:30AM
	 
	  Clear Creek Golf Course 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

 
 

 


	  
	  Ê
  

 
 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits