Utah golf news and courses - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

 


      


  
  
	  

  
   
 
	

 
 
  

  
 
 
	 
		    
		  Ê  
		    
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  Course Guide Home  
				  Golf News  
				  Contact Us  
				  Mobile  
				  Register Your Course  
			 
		 
	 
	
					
 

	 
	 
		 
 
    
   
     

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Victory Ranch Club  Visit Clubhouse  7865 N. Victory Ranch Drive Kamas, UT 84036 
 www.victoryranchclub.com 
 
  
	 
	

     
   
    
 
  
 
	



	 

		   Utah Golf News   

		 

  Two Flavors of Residential Golf in St. George   

	

by Steve Habel
  
The city of St. George, Utah, and its surrounding communities have been one of the nation's fastest growing metrop...
 


 
 

  Blake on Cloud Nine after Latest Victory  

After going 20 years between victories, Jay Don Blake finds himself on a comparative roll. The 52-year-old got his first Champions Tour win in Sept...
 


 
 

  Utah's Kokopelli GC is off the Beaten Track, but Not for Long  

	

by Steve Habel
   
The area of southern Utah defined by red rock boulders and the distant Pine Valley Mountains can be - once you're...
 


 
 

  Coral Canyon & Sand Hollow Make for Great Golf in Southwest Utah  

	

by Steve Habel
  
The area surrounding St. George, Utah, is often called "color country" for its spectrum of reds, blues and greens ...
 


 
 

  There's Golf Gold in the Red Rock of Southwest Utah  

	

by Steve Habel
  
The southwest corner of Utah is renowned for its quality of life and low cost of living. The area has also become ...
 


 
 

  Three Named to Utah Golf Hall of Fame  

Jay Don Blake, Dan Forsman and Todd Barker have been named to the Utah Golf Hall of Fame. The three will be honored at a ceremony May 11th at H...
 


 
 

  Johnny Miller to Serve as Honorary Chair of 2012 U.S. Amateur Public Links  

Johnny Miller, a two-time USGA champion, will be the honorary chairman of the 2012 U.S. Amateur Public Links Championship, which will b...
 


 
 

  Utah's Soldier Hollow to Host 2012 Public Links  

The United States Golf Association has selected Soldier Hollow Golf Course in Midway, Utah, to host the 2012 U.S. Amateur Public Links Cham...
 


 
 

  Red Ledges - and the Other Great Courses - in Park City  

	

by Joel Zuckerman
  
It's a common enough feeling around Park City, Utah. Poised at a precipice, your heart's a drumbeat as you cont...
 


 
 

  New Rees Jones-Designed Course Opens in Utah  

	

Victory Ranch Golf Club is part of a new development on the outskirts of Park City, Utah, and 45 minutes from Salt Lake City International Airport....
 


 


		
			
				 Work Continues on Red Ledges in Utah  
			
				 Utah's Wolf Creek Resort Goes Private  
			
				 Plans Unveiled For New Southern Utah Golf Resort  
			
				 Olympian Golf Complex Completed  
			
		
	 

		 	

		 

		
		
			
			
				  Greater Salt Lake City Area  
			
			
			 
				  Victory Ranch Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		

		 
	 
 
	 
	
			   Course Updates  
			
		 

		 
			   Web Specials  
			
	  
		
    Clubhouse Updates  
						
					
				
					
						   Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
						   AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
						   bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					

 
	 
	 
		   Golfers looking for partners  


	
	 
	 
		
		
		 Tommy Ryan 
		 11/29/11 at 04:33PM
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	0 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 johnslakjs 
		 11/12/11 at 08:06AM
	 
	  Sample Business 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 golferrick22 
		 10/06/11 at 09:04AM
	 
	  findagolfer.com 
	5 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 jlara 
		 09/26/11 at 11:30AM
	 
	  Clear Creek Golf Course 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

 
 

 


	  
	  Ê
  

 
 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits