Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Kansas  Ç Greater Wichita 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Wichita Golf News  
			 

  GCSAA Names Konzem New COO  

Richard Konzem, who has more than 30 years of managerial experience, primarily in intercollegiate athletics, has been named chief opera...
 


 
 

  Golfers to 'Chip in' to Help Those in Need  

The 30th Annual Ben and Betty Zarda Family Golf Classic benefiting Catholic Charities Foundation of Northeast Kansas and the community it serves wi...
 


 
 

  Stasi Wins U.S. Mid-Amateur  

Meghan Stasi made history Thursday at Wichita Country Club in defeating Carol Robertson, 2 up, and winning the U.S. Women's Mid-Amateur...
 


 
 

  Kansas Wins 2010 USGA Men's State Team Title  

The gigantic smile on Bryan Norton's face told it all. Twice a USGA runner-up - once as an individual at the 2003 U.S. Mid-Amateur and again la...
 


 
 

  Fundraising Goal Exceeded in NE Kansas Event  

The 29th Annual Golf Classic benefiting Catholic Charities Foundation of Northeast Kansas has given hope to people of all faiths in need throughout...
 


 
 

  New Firekeeper Course in Kansas to Debut in Next Summer  

	

Despite an ongoing battle with Mother Nature, Firekeeper Golf Course in Mayetta, Kans., has been completed in a six-month construction schedule by ...
 


 
 

  'K-Cup' Means Excellent Golf & Food  

	

by Joel Zuckerman
  
It would be a gross exaggeration to claim that the number of golf-buddy trips I've been part of are uncountable...
 


 
 

  Begay Co-designs Course in Kansas for Local Tribe  

Notah Begay III, the PGA Tour's only full-blooded Native American player, has joined forces with the Prairie Band Potawatomi Nation to ...
 


 
 

  Wichita Country Club to Host 2010 U.S. Women's Mid-Amateur Championship   

The United States Golf Association has announced that Wichita (Kan.) Country Club has been selected as the site of the 2010 U.S. Women's Mid-Am...
 


 
 

  Bushnell & Laser Technology Sue the Brunton Company & Others for Patent Infringement   

January 9, 2009. Bushnell Inc. and Laser Technology Inc. have sued the Brunton Company, American Technologies Network Corp., LS Global LLC (dba I-O...
 


 


		
			
				 New Owner for Western Hills in Topeka  
			
				 Cannonball Golf Course in Kansas Returns to Normal Thanks to Friends  
			
				 Friends to Give Makeover to Kansas Golf Course  
			
				 Sand Creek Station Sand Creek Station Becomes Brauer?s Third Straight Course on ?Best-of? List  
			
				 New Municipal Course Opening in Newton, Kansas   
			
				 K-State Study Examines Golf Course Ball Mark Repair  
			
				 Construction Continuing on Cottonwood Hills in Kansas  
			
				 Palmer Design & NAJGA Forge Partnership  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Wichita
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Wichita Golf Courses 
			
 
 Hidden Lakes Golf Course  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Crestview Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Sand Creek Station  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Tallgrass Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



			 
		  Greater Wichita Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits