Oldest Surviving Member of PGA Dies - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 


		  Featured Golf News  
		 Oldest Surviving Member of PGA Dies 

		
		  
		 

	
		 
			
			 The oldest member of the PGA of America has passed away. Joseph J. "Bud" Lewis died November 22nd at his home at Wyncote, Pa., at the age of 103. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Mr. Lewis was also the longest-serving member of the PGA of America, the association for club and teaching golf professionals.  
		
	
		 
			
			 After joining the PGA in 1931, Mr. Lewis worked as a professional at five clubs before landing the job as head professional at Manufacturers Golf and Country Club in Oreland, Pa., in 1943. Even after he retired in 1979, Mr. Lewis remained at the club as the pro emeritus and gave lessons until he was well past the age of 90. 
		
	
		 
			
			 "Why do I still give them?" he said once in an interview. "I have 12 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. Whatever I make, I give to them." Since those comments were made in 1996, Mr. Lewis's number of great-grandchildren rose to 18. 
		
	
		 
			
			 According to reporter Joe Juliano of the Philadelphia Inquirer, Mr. Lewis was a fine player but thought he was better suited to being a club pro. The great Byron Nelson was one observer who believed Mr. Lewis could have made a go of it on the professional circuit.  
		
	
		 
			
			 "I was playing with Nelson and [Gene] Sarazen at Torresdale-Frankford, and I broke 70 twice," Mr. Lewis told Juliano. "Nelson asked me, 'Why aren't you playing the Tour?' I said, 'Hell, no. I've got kids. I've got to make some money.' " 
		
	
		 
			
			 Mr. Lewis won Philadelphia Section PGA championships in 1943 and '48, and the Philadelphia Open in 1942 and '50. He also competed in three U.S. Opens and six PGA Championships. 
		
	
		 
			
			 But teaching golfers was what Mr. Lewis was best at. In his book, "A Centennial Tribute to Golf in Philadelphia," author James W. Finegan wrote that LPGA Hall of Famer Patty Berg considered Mr. Lewis the best teacher in golf. He also taught blind golfers and ran tournaments for them. 
		
	
		 
			
			 For Juliano's full story, visit  http://articles.philly.com/2011-11-27/news/30447258_1_sarazen-pga-card-manufacturers-golf . 
		
	
		 
			
			  
		
	

		 
		  
		   ('Õ)  
		    
		      
		 
		 
		 

		 
		 
			
  
		 

		 Story Options 
		 
			 
				  
				  Send to a friend  
			 
			 
				    

				  Print this Story  
			 
			 
				    
				  Recommend this story  
			 
		 
		 
		 
		 GolfVite Updates 
				 
				
					
				
					
					  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
					  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
					  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
				 


		 
		    
		 
		 Headlines 
			 
					
				  Irish Team Disappointed in Final Round of World Cup  
				
				  Kuchar & Woodland Thrilled with World Cup Win  
				
				  Oldest Surviving Member of PGA Dies  
				
				  Never a Dull Moment at Reynolds Plantation's Golf Courses  
				
				  USA Rallies to Win World Cup  
				
			 

		 
		
		 
		 Related News 
			 
					
				  Whitetail Golf Resort Open for Business  
				
				  Forse Completes Vision for Donegal Highlands  
				
				  P.B. Dye-Designed Iron Valley  
				
				  Transformation Planned for Laurelton Center  
				
				  Chisel Creek Golf Club  
				
			 
		 
	
	 
	  


 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits