Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Hawaii  Ç Maui 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Maui Golf News  
			 

  Porter-King Named PGA First Lady of Golf  

Mary Bea Porter-King of Kapaa, Hawaii, a celebrated four-sport collegiate athlete, LPGA Tour veteran, pioneer in junior golf within...
 


 
 

  Princeville Prince Golf Course Sets Reopening Date  

Princeville Prince, one of the top-ranked courses in Hawaii, has announced a reopening date of December 14th to unveil its renovations. 
 


 
 

  New Owners for Makaha Resort Golf Course  

Northwynd Resort Properties Ltd. ("Northwynd"), owner of Makaha Resort & Golf Club, has announced the sale of the resort's 18-hole ...
 


 
 

  The Green Highway - Stories from Golf in America: Waimea Country Club  

	

by George Fuller
   
Of the more than 15,000 golf courses in the U.S., there are precious few I've played where I've said to myself,...
 


 
 

  Princeville Course Being Renovated  

The renovation of the Prince Golf Course, located at Princeville Resort on Kauai's north shore, has been expanded to include additional...
 


 
 

  Mad About Maui  

	

by George Fuller
   
Celebrated author James A. Michener once referred to those of us irresistibly drawn to flecks of land in distan...
 


 
 

  Champions Tour Set to Tee Off New Season  

The 2011 Champions Tour will start the new season just as it has for the past 15 years, on Hawaii's Big Island for the Mitsubishi Electric Champion...
 


 
 

  Waikoloa Beach Resort to Host Unique College Golf Event   

The top collegiate golfers in the country are returning to the Big Island of Hawaii February 1-4 for the UH-HILO Men's College Golf Tournament. 
 


 
 

  Palmer Set to Defend in Sony Open   

Ryan Palmer notched his third career win on the PGA Tour in last year's Sony Open. The Texan is back in Hawaii for this week's event, which returns...
 


 
 

  Poipu Bay Reopens with New Turf  

Poipu Bay Golf Course, the former home of the PGA Grand Slam of Golf, was closed for nine months for a re-turfing project that involved con...
 


 


		
			
				 2011 Sony Open to be Aired in Live 3D  
			
				 Poipu Bay Set to Reopen in December  
			
				 Nicklaus Gives Thumbs-Up to Work at Kaua'i Lagoons  
			
				 Big Fun on the Big Island  
			
				 Water, Water Everywhere  
			
				 Work Finishing up at Makai Golf Club on Kauai  
			
				 Kona Country Club's Ocean Course to Get a Facelift  
			
				 Hoakalei Country Club Nearly Complete  
			
				 Pressel Named Touring Pro at Kapalua Resort  
			
				 Fujikawa to Turn Pro  
			
				 Ernie Els Visits New Course in Hawaii  
			
				 Longest Hole-in-One in History Recorded  
			
				 Kauai Honored as Hawaii?s No. 1 Island & Golf Shines Too  
			
				 Kaanapali North Undergoing Renovations   
			
				 The Rebirth of Kiahuna   
			
				 Puakea Golf Course Offers Incentives to Visitors  
			
				 The Scariest Golf Course in America   
			
				 Here Today, Gone to Maui  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Maui
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Maui Golf Courses 
			
 
 Kaanapali Golf Courses  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



			 
		  Maui Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits