Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

 


      


  
  
	  

  
   
 
	

 
 
  

  
 
 
	 
		 
 
	Log in to Cybergolf Clubhouse
	 
	  Email:     
	  Password:     
	 
	 
	 Forgot password? 
 

 
	 
	 
		 

			 
				  Course Guide Home  
				  Golf News  
				  Contact Us  
				  Mobile  
				  Register Your Course  

			 
		 
	 
	

 
 

 
 

 
 
	 

	  


	  


 
 Angel Park 
100 South Rampart Boulevard 
Las Vegas, NV 89145 
(888) 446-5358 
 http://www.angelpark.com  

    
 
   
 
 
	 Golf Pro 

	




 Looking for Partners 
 

	Currently there are no partner requests at Angel Park,  Click here to create one. 

 

 Golf Invite 
 
 
 Invite a friend to golf at Angel Park 
 
 Photos 
  
 Visit web site  

 
 
	
	 Tee Times 
	 Book a Tee Time Today 	
	
	
	
	 Angel Park - Course Updates 
	
		  Angel Park NFR Attendees! 
		 Complimentary rental clubs with 2011 NFR ticket! 
		 Posted about 11 hours ago 
	 
	
		  Angel Park 3 X Points!  
		 OB Sports Card Members get 3 X points Monday - Wednesday this week! 
		 Posted about 11 hours ago 
	 
	
		  Angel Park 2012 OB Sports Card 
		 $149 for Residents! Get All The Stuff No One Else Gives You! Including 4 Free Tournaments, A Birthday Round, + 1 Additional Round Issued As 500 Bonus Points! 
		 Posted 2 months ago 
	 
	
		  Angel Park Play Saturday Mornings In 3:45 or Less! 
		 Reserve your spot next Saturday morning in our Express Lane program. 
		 Posted 7 months ago 
	 
	
	
	 Location 

 

 
 Weather 
      
 

 
	
 CBS Video 
    

 Cybergolf News 

	  Kuchar & Woodland Thrilled with World Cup Win  

	  Irish Team Disappointed in Final Round of World Cup  

	  Oldest Surviving Member of PGA Dies  

	  USA Rallies to Win World Cup  

	  Chalmers Wins Australian PGA  

 Games 

  
Take the Quiz:  Which Pro Golfer Are You?   
 Trivia 
 ? Challenge yourself with  Clubhouse Trivia  

	 Golf Poll 
				
				 
				Is the Tiger - Phil era over?
				 
				 	
				
					
					 No - those two are still the best players in the world. 
					
				
					
					 Yes - time for the new guys on tour to take over.  
					
				
					
				
					
				
				 
			 
			  
			 

 
 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits