Jeff's Journal - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 

	 Jeff's Journal 
	

		 

  Q&A with a Grand Strand Veteran  

	

by Jeff Shelley
  
Visited annually by over 14 million tourists a year, the Grand Strand in South Carolina is home to a variety of a...
 


 
 

  Building a New Track: The Finished Product - Part 3  

	

by Jeff Shelley
  
The vagaries involved in designing and constructing a new golf course reared up their sometimes-ugly heads at Sal...
 


 
 

  Two New Jacobsen Hardy Treats in the Northwest  

	

by Jeff Shelley
  
Peter Jacobsen has become an icon in Northwest golf circles. The personality-plus touring pro from Portland has n...
 


 
 

  Bodenhamer Will be Missed in Northwest Golf Circles  

by Jeff Shelley
  
The appointment of John Bodenhamer as the senior managing director of Rules, Competitions & Amateur Status for th...
 


 
 

  Bandon Dunes Update  

	

by Jeff Shelley
   
I, along with several other media types from the Northwest, did a whirlwind, three-day trip to Bandon Dunes last...
 


 
 

  Myriad Stories  

	

by Jeff Shelley
  
The story you're reading is the 10,000th I've put up on Cybergolf since coming to work here in the year 2000. I k...
 


 
 

  Are Golf & Farming No Longer Compatible?  

	

by Jeff Shelley
  
Several states are weighing their options on whether to allow new golf projects to be developed on land set aside...
 


 
 

  The Dog Days of Golf  

	

by Jeff Shelley
  
The last few weeks of the year are virtually barren of golf news. Besides a dearth of pro tour events anywhere on...
 


 
 

  Golfing 'Barefoot'  

	

by Jeff Shelley
  
I've owned dozens of golf shoes over the years. They've run the gamut, from Dexters in the 1960s and '70s to more...
 


 
 

  Auto-Annoyance on the Golf Course  

	

by Jeff Shelley
  
A Seattle newspaper columnist recently went on a rant about "lane campers" who clog up our interstates by adamant...
 


 



		
			
				 Yes Victoria, You Have Great Golf  
			
				 Charting a New Course West of Seattle  
			
				 What Just Happened Here?  
			
				 Huntsman Springs: The Dream Materializes for its Namesake  
			
				 A Legend in Northwest Golf Passes  
			
				 Golf Proves Profitable for Washington State  
			
				 Fired as a Course Rater  
			
				 Do it for the Kids Tiger  
			
				 Cybergolf's Sage Speaks His Mind  
			
				 Giant Golf Books  
			
				 Stick to the Politics Bill  
			
				 Scotland: Where Golf is Part of the Social Fabric  
			
				 Heading Off to the Old Course  
			
				 Is the Ink Becoming Invisible on Newspapers?  
			
				 Capitalizing on Emphasis  
			
				 'Pete Dye Golf Courses' by Joel Zuckerman  
			
				 Bandon Dunes' Keiser is at it Again  
			
				 Color & Golf  
			
				 Big Projects in the Works for Eastern Washington  
			
				 New WSU Course Set to Open  
			
				 Odds & Ends from the U.S. Open  
			
				 More Odds & Ends from the Open  
			
				 Odds & Ends from the U.S. Open - Part 3  
			
				 Feats of Clay & Stern  
			
				 Making the Monthly Rounds  
			
				 Time Has Come Today  
			
				 Christmas at the Club  
			
				 Ode to a War Hero  
			
				 Gary Player Deserves a Mulligan  
			
				 South Sound Renaissance  
			
				 Is Tiger Woods Bad for the PGA Tour?  
			
				 Superintendent's Best Friend Calendars  
			
				 If Bandon Can Draw Golfers from Around the World, Why Not Tacoma?  
			
				 White Horse Golf Club: A Thoroughbred Chomping at the Bit  
			
				 George Wright Golf Course: A Boston Gem   
			
				 Building a New Track - Part 1  
			
				 Golf Buds  
			
				 Observations of a 'Tin Cup' Pro - Part 3: Seattle, Another Wife & Other Tales  
			
				 Observations of a 'Tin Cup' Pro - Part 2: The New Orleans Connection & A New Invention  
			
				 Meeting Charlie Schaubel  
			
				 Golfcross: A New Way to Play the Game  
			
				 These Guys Are . . .  
			
				 The Little Course that Could Won't Anymore  
			
				 Golf & Much More in the Magnolia State  
			
				 Provincial Changes  
			
				 Golf in Ireland - The Final Leg  
			
				 Golf in Ireland Part 3 - Waterville & Tralee  
			
				 Golf in Ireland - Portmarnock, Ballybunion & a Welcome Respite In Between  
			
				 Golf In Ireland  
			
				 Goin' Golfin' in Ireland  
			
				 The State of the Game  
			
				 Tiger As a Cub  
			
				 Me & Freddie  
			
				 The Ball Is the Target  
			
				 Barrow Discusses First Tee Program  
			
				 Good Medicine at Circling Raven   
			
				 Traipsing Down the Audubon Golf Trail  
			
				 March 29, 2004 -  Strange Rounds (Part 1)  
			
				 February 10, 2004 -  Tiger is a Poa Pussycat  
			
				 January 15, 2004. Guys & Girls  
			
				 December 29, 2003 - Tree-Huggers & Bone Collectors  
			
				 December 10, 2003 - Christmas Time in the City  
			
				 November 6, 2003. Tale of the Dragon - Part 3  
			
				 October 22, 2003. Tale of the Dragon - Part 2  
			
				 October 22, 2003. Tale of the Dragon - Part 1  
			
				 September 22, 2003. Green Committees  
			
				 August 27, 2003. Salubrious  
			
				 August 2003 - The 'Ponky' of the Pacific Northwest  
			
				 June 23, 2003 - Whitefish, Big Sky Country  
			
				 May 21, 2003 - In a Perfect World  
			
				 May 8, 2003. Lamenting a Death in the 'Family'  
			
				 April 25. Is There Anything There, There?  
			
				 Followup to March 20:  
			
				 March 20-23, 2003. Bandon Continued  
			
				 March 20, 2003 - Bandon Dunes  
			
		
	

	 

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits