Golf Health and Fitness - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 

	 Golf Health and Fitness 
	

		 

  Carpal Tunnel Syndrome & Golf  

	

by Larry Foster, M.D., F.A.A.O.S. (Dr. Divot)
  
One of the most common clinical problems I see in my orthopedic practice is carpal ...
 


 
 

  The Home Stretch  

	

by Tony Dear
  
After a 45-minute workout, Roger Fredericks, fitness and flexibility guru to some of the game's greatest players, is...
 


 
 

  Preventing Injuries During the Golden Years of Golf  

by Larry Foster, M.D., F.A.A.O.S. ("Dr. Divot")
  
Golf is a unique sport in that it is actually more appealing to us as players as ...
 


 
 

  All Hot Golfers Get 'Warm' First!  

by Larry Foster, M.D., F.A.A.O.S. ("Dr. Divot")
  
Long thought of as a "cushy" pastime, golf actually causes an alarmingly high num...
 


 
 

  Missing a Two-foot Putt is NOT the Most Painful Part of Golf!  

	

by Larry Foster, M.D., F.A.A.O.S. (Dr. Divot)
  
Contrary to popular belief, golf is not a cushy pastime. Until I began to play golf...
 


 
 

  The Health of Your Spine Will Improve Your Game   

	

by Chiara Guerrieri
  
Your spine is at its best when it isn't aggravated by the effects of gravity pulling you down as you work and...
 


 
 

  Yoga, Golf & Concentration  

	

by Melina Meza
  
Have you ever had that experience where you and your object of concentration (golf ball) become one? If you have, ...
 


 
 

  Yoga & Golf  

	

by Melina Meza
  
Today in America between 6 and 9 million people practice yoga. Most gyms and health clubs offer yoga classes. News...
 


 
 

  Brain Dooms Golf Swing to Inconsistency  

	

The following article by David Orenstein appeared in the January 17, 2007, issue of Stanford Report, a newspaper for the Stanford University commun...
 


 
 

  Osteoporosis & Golf  

by Larry Foster, M.D., F.A.A.O.S. (Dr. Divot)
  

Osteoporosis is an important health issue facing all older golfers - particularly...
 


 



		
			
				 Attention Lady Golfers: Beware of the Injury Bug!  
			
				 Joint Replacement and the Golfer  
			
				 Conditioning & Preventive Exercises for Golf  
			
				 New Golf Health & Fitness Section on Cybergolf  
			
				 Survey Says: Golfers Live Longer  
			
				 Scientist Determines Golf a Sport  
			
		
	

	 

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits