Westwood to Rejoin PGA Tour - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 


		  Featured Golf News  
		 Westwood to Rejoin PGA Tour 

		
		  
		 

	
		 
			
			 England's Lee Westwood has decided to rejoin the PGA Tour in 2012. In order to do that, he must play a minimum of 15 events in the U.S. His first tournament will be the Accenture World Match Play in Arizona in February. 
		
	
		 
			
			 "I missed the Players Championship last year when watching it on television," Westwood said. "It was always a scheduling issue for me. 
		
	
		 
			
			 "It's a great event and one I've always enjoyed playing," he said of the tournament at Sawgrass in Florida. 
		
	
		 
			
			 "It just felt right in a Ryder Cup year to commit to a full program in the United States," added Westwood, who'll also play in European Tour events. "The FedEx Cup looked pretty good on TV this year. I thought it would be great to give it a go, having never taken part. 
		
	
		 
			
			 "Though the rules changed making it exempt from PGA Tour restrictions, I had already set my schedule for later in the year in Asia. I didn't want to break any of those commitments."  
		
	
		 
			
			 PGA Tour chief of operations Andy Pazder was pleased about the return to the U.S. by the current No. 3-ranked player in the world: "We are delighted to welcome back Lee as a member of the PGA Tour. He has obviously proven himself to be one of the very best and most consistent players in the world, and fans of the PGA Tour will enjoy having more opportunities to watch him compete." 
		
	
		 
			
			  
		
	
		 
			
			  
		
	
		 
			
			  
		
	
		 
			
			  
		
	

		 
		  
		   ('Õ)  
		    
		      
		 
		 
		 

		 
		 
			
  
		 

		 Story Options 
		 
			 
				  
				  Send to a friend  
			 
			 
				    

				  Print this Story  
			 
			 
				    
				  Recommend this story  
			 
		 
		 
		 
		 GolfVite Updates 
				 
				
					
				
					
					  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
					  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
					  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
				 


		 
		    
		 
		 Headlines 
			 
					
				  Irish Team Disappointed in Final Round of World Cup  
				
				  Kuchar & Woodland Thrilled with World Cup Win  
				
				  Oldest Surviving Member of PGA Dies  
				
				  Never a Dull Moment at Reynolds Plantation's Golf Courses  
				
				  USA Rallies to Win World Cup  
				
			 

		 
		
		 
		 Related News 
			 
					
				  First LPGA Sectional Qualifying Tournament Set to Start  
				
				  GOLF 20/20 Concludes with Historic Alliance  
				
				  Billy Casper Golf Raises Funds  
				
				  Billy Casper Golf Raises Funds  
				
				  Cybergolf's New Broadcast System Helps Golf Courses  
				
			 
		 
	
	 
	  


 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits