Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Utah  Ç Greater Salt Lake City Area 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Salt Lake City Area Golf News  
			 

  Two Flavors of Residential Golf in St. George   

	

by Steve Habel
  
The city of St. George, Utah, and its surrounding communities have been one of the nation's fastest growing metrop...
 


 
 

  Blake on Cloud Nine after Latest Victory  

After going 20 years between victories, Jay Don Blake finds himself on a comparative roll. The 52-year-old got his first Champions Tour win in Sept...
 


 
 

  Utah's Kokopelli GC is off the Beaten Track, but Not for Long  

	

by Steve Habel
   
The area of southern Utah defined by red rock boulders and the distant Pine Valley Mountains can be - once you're...
 


 
 

  Coral Canyon & Sand Hollow Make for Great Golf in Southwest Utah  

	

by Steve Habel
  
The area surrounding St. George, Utah, is often called "color country" for its spectrum of reds, blues and greens ...
 


 
 

  There's Golf Gold in the Red Rock of Southwest Utah  

	

by Steve Habel
  
The southwest corner of Utah is renowned for its quality of life and low cost of living. The area has also become ...
 


 
 

  Three Named to Utah Golf Hall of Fame  

Jay Don Blake, Dan Forsman and Todd Barker have been named to the Utah Golf Hall of Fame. The three will be honored at a ceremony May 11th at H...
 


 
 

  Johnny Miller to Serve as Honorary Chair of 2012 U.S. Amateur Public Links  

Johnny Miller, a two-time USGA champion, will be the honorary chairman of the 2012 U.S. Amateur Public Links Championship, which will b...
 


 
 

  Utah's Soldier Hollow to Host 2012 Public Links  

The United States Golf Association has selected Soldier Hollow Golf Course in Midway, Utah, to host the 2012 U.S. Amateur Public Links Cham...
 


 
 

  Red Ledges - and the Other Great Courses - in Park City  

	

by Joel Zuckerman
  
It's a common enough feeling around Park City, Utah. Poised at a precipice, your heart's a drumbeat as you cont...
 


 
 

  New Rees Jones-Designed Course Opens in Utah  

	

Victory Ranch Golf Club is part of a new development on the outskirts of Park City, Utah, and 45 minutes from Salt Lake City International Airport....
 


 


		
			
				 Work Continues on Red Ledges in Utah  
			
				 Utah's Wolf Creek Resort Goes Private  
			
				 Plans Unveiled For New Southern Utah Golf Resort  
			
				 Olympian Golf Complex Completed  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Salt Lake City Area
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Salt Lake City Area Golf Courses 
			
 
 Victory Ranch Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



			 
		  Greater Salt Lake City Area Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits