Northern Mexico golf news and courses - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç Northern Mexico 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Northern Mexico Golf News  

		 

  Matthew Cruises Home in Lorena Ochoa Invitational  

Catriona Matthew of Scotland extended her three-stroke lead Sunday in the  Lorena Ochoa Invitational, posting a 1-under 71 for a four-shot victory ...
 


 
 

  The Southern Tip of Baja: Golf as Good as it Gets  

	

As we putted out on the first green of the Ocean Course at Palmilla Golf Club and walked back toward our cart, club manager Jason Ballog turned to ...
 


 
 

  Mexican Drug Violence Affects Golf   

The alarming increase in the number of deaths related to warring Mexican drug cartels has hit home in golf. 
 


 
 

  Tale of the Whale & More at St. Regis Punta Mita  

	

Joel Zuckerman
  
It was an extremely rare sight, if you stopped and thought about it for a second. There was Hale Irwin, the World ...
 


 
 

  Ochoa to Receive 2011 Bob Jones Award  

Lorena Ochoa, who dominated the LPGA Tour for four years before retiring at age 28, and whose foundation has benefited hundreds of Mexico's underpr...
 


 
 

  Los Cabos Continues to Add New Courses  

	

As Mexico's golf mecca, Los Cabos is home to growing collection of golf courses designed by such notables as Jack Nicklaus, Greg Norman and Pete Dye. 
 


 
 

  Basking in Golf & Luxury on Mexico's Riviera  

	

by Jim Moore
  
Until a month or so ago, the only places I'd been to in Mexico were Tijuana and Juarez. If you've been to either bor...
 


 
 

  Puerto Vallarta - Golf and Life in the Slow Lane  

	

by David Wood
  
For me, a traveling golfer who savors accruing passport stamps, Puerto Vallarta is ideal - friendly, authentic, sun...
 


 
 

  Ochoa Hills Land First Project at Punta Lobos  

Ochoa Hills Golf Course Architects, the collaborative venture formed last year by Alejandro Ochoa and the partners at Arthur Hills/Steve Forres...
 


 
 

  Querencia in Los Cabos Set to Expand  

	

While much of golf development in the U.S. is in the doldrums, the industry is alive and well on the tip of Mexico's Baja Peninsula. Originated in ...
 


 


		
			
				 First Gary Player Signature Course in Mexico Set to Break Ground   
			
				 Woods to Design Course in Mexico  
			
				 Ochoa/Hills Golf Design Firm Formed for Mexican Projects  
			
				 Schmidt-Curley Heads Up Projects in Mexico   
			
				 Riviera Nayarit in Mexico is Growing  
			
				 Links at Las Palomas in Sonora, Mexico Opens for Play  
			
				 Links at Las Palomas in Sonora, Mexico Opens for Play  
			
				 Works Starts on Nicklaus Design at San Felipe Marina Resort & Golf   
			
				 Northern Baja Has a Lot Going for It  
			
				 Americans Flocking to Baja in Land Grab  
			
		
	 

	 
					 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Northern Mexico
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 



	
		  Northern Mexico Cities and Golf Courses 
	
		 
		Please click a course below to send a GolfVite or view their latest specials 
		 
		 
		  
		  = Coupon 
		  = Tee Times 
		  = GolfVite 
		  = Events 
		 
		 

		 
			   

		
		

		 
		   

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits