Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Ohio  Ç Greater Cincinnati 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Cincinnati Golf News  
			 

  Muirfield Village to Host 'One-Tee-Up' Tournaments  

In recent months Jack Nicklaus has joined several of golf's leading organizations, including the PGA of America and USGA, to encourage ...
 


 
 

  Scott Laps Field in WGC-Bridgestone Invitational  

With a veteran caddie on his bag, a confident Adam Scott wrapped up a wire-to-wire win in the WGC-Bridgestone Invitational with a final-round 5-und...
 


 
 

  Tiger Holds Press Conference at Firestone  

On Tuesday morning, Tiger Woods met with reporters and talked about his first golf competition since the Players Championship in mid-May. Woods is ...
 


 
 

  Stallings on Cloud Nine after Big Win  

Scott Stallings was planning on flying to Reno from White Sulfur Springs, W.V., on Monday after playing in the Greenbrier Classic. But the 26-year-...
 


 
 

  Lehman Looking for Good Results this Week in U.S. Senior Open  

With three titles each, Tom Lehman and John Cook are the top winners on the Champions Tour this year. Lehman leads the over-50 circuit in earnings,...
 


 
 

  Longaberger Golf Club Celebrates 'March Madness'  

	

Longaberger Golf Club, the top-ranked public golf course in Ohio, has released early-bird March rates starting at $59 per golfer per round, or $125...
 


 
 

  Dobie Recognized by GCSAA  

Frank Dobie, the superintendent and general manager at the Sharon Golf Club in Sharon Center, Ohio, has been selected to receive the 20...
 


 
 

  Jamie Farr Classic to Take One-Year Break  

LPGA Tour and tournament officials have announced that the Jamie Farr Owens Corning Classic will not be held in 2011. The event will return in 2012...
 


 
 

  Jamie Farr Classic to Take One-Year Break  

LPGA Tour and tournament officials have announced that the Jamie Farr Owens Corning Classic will not be held in 2011. The event will return in 2012...
 


 
 

  Ohio-based Architect Continues to Shine  

The world of golf course architects is filled with talented designers, iconic names like Tom Fazio, Jack Nicklaus and Pete Dye. Less known ...
 


 


		
			
				 Black Golf Pioneer Passes Away  
			
				 William Powell honored by Ohio Golf Course Owners Association  
			
				 Jamie Farr Classic to Return in 2010   
			
				 Jamie Farr Classic to Return in 2010   
			
				 Tanglewood CC in Ohio to be Sold at Auction  
			
				 Ohio's Country Club of the North Sold to Escalante Golf  
			
				 A Buckeye Bonanza  
			
				 Inverness Club to Host 2011 U.S. Senior Open   
			
				 Woodland Golf Course to Celebrate 75th Anniversary  
			
				 Mounds of Controversy at Ohio Club  
			
				 Changes, Changes, Changes Lead to Improved Courses  
			
				 Kinsale Celebrates Grand Opening  
			
				 Jaime Diaz & Lee Trevino   
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Cincinnati
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Cincinnati Golf Courses 
			
 
 Pipestone Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Walden Ponds  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Shaker Run Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Traditions Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Crooked Tree Golf Course  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 

 Ê  Web Specials  
 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Mound Golf Course  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Country Club of the North  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Royal Oak Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 




			 
		  Greater Cincinnati Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits