Irish Team Disappointed in Final Round of World Cup - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 


		  Featured Golf News  
		 Irish Team Disappointed in Final Round of World Cup 

		
		  
		 

	
		 
			
			 The Irish duo of Graeme McDowell and Rory McIlroy were in perfect position to pull off their country's third overall World Cup title on Sunday. The past two U.S. Open champions had a two-stroke lead heading into the final-round foursomes (alternate-shot) matches. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Unfortunately, the two "Macs" weren't able to have their name etched on the Cup alongside the previous winners from Ireland, Harry Bradshaw and Christy O'Connor in 1958 and Padraig Harrington and Paul McGinley in 1997, closing with an even-par 72 on the Blackstone course at Mission Hills in China.  
		
	
		 
			
			 Carding four birdies and a like number of bogeys - including a pair of lost strokes on two par-5s, the Irish ended up tied for fourth with Australia, the Netherlands and Scotland, three strokes behind the winning American team of Matt Kuchar and Gary Woodland. 
		
	
		 
			
			 On Sunday, McDowell and McIlroy sat down with the media and explained their disappointing performance. Here's what they told reporters during that Q&A. 
		
	
		 
			
			 GRAEME McDOWELL: We just didn't have it out there today. We had no mojo. We didn't make anything. We had two of probably the best breaks we had all year on the two par-5s and we made 6 off both of them. That was really just the story of the day. Made nothing. Just couldn't get it going. You know, we knew what we had to do today. Our target was to go and shoot 4 under par and that's exactly what we needed to do. We just couldn't get it done. Disappointed, of course, but this is a high quality golf tournament. The USA have played fantastic, England have played phenomenally well and that was the high standard that we had to live up to today and we just didn't do it.  
		
	
		 
			
			 Q. Any reason for it?  
		
	
		 
			
			 RORY McILROY: Not really. Foursomes, it's a difficult format. You know, if you lose your rhythm slightly, it's very hard to get it back. You can go a few holes without hitting an iron shot or a few holes without hitting a putt, and that was basically the story of our day, just really didn't get anything going. You know, I didn't get us off to the best of starts, missing a little putt on the first, but we hung in there tough on the front nine, and we made birdie on 10, which we thought might have sort of kick started something, but as Graeme said, we got two good breaks on two par 5s and ended up not taking advantage of them and that cost us. You know, we just found it very difficult to make birdies out there. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Q. And essentially, you were right in it at the halfway stage on the final day and you tried to force the issue, and you can't do that in foursomes.  
		
	
		 
			
			 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, my iron play was very off the boil on the back nine. I had not hit an iron shot for five holes and pulled it left at 10 and Rory just chips in, phenomenal birdie there. You know, my iron play was just weak on the back nine. I put us in bad positions and we just made nothing, as well. So it was a frustrating day.  It's twice we have come up short in this tournament. We love this tournament. We have really enjoyed playing together, and hopefully we'll get a couple more shots at it. We had our chances today but like I say, a high level of golf and we just didn't quite make the birdies, like Rory says today. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Q. That chip in was very special, and then the spirits must have lifted?
   
RORY McILROY: Yeah, of course it did. As I said, that was really what we thought was going to get us going to kick start something and we got a good up and down on 11. Just every time we felt like we were getting a bit of momentum, we sort of threw it away again. Like we birdied 5, and I drove it in a bad position on 6 and ended up getting away with it.  Every time we sort of made a birdie, we took a step backwards again, which is the story of the day.
  
Q. You've got a busy turnaround with Ryo Ishikawa in Japan and then onto Hong Kong. 
  
RORY McILROY: I'm looking forward to it.  I have an exhibition with Ryo tomorrow in Japan. It will be fun. It's for a great cause, as well. It's for the earthquake and tsunami fund so a lot of money going towards charity tomorrow. I'm expecting a huge crowd, as always, with Ryo in Japan, and everywhere he goes in the world. You know, it will be a fun day and then obviously going back to Hong Kong, one of my favorite spots of the year.  So looking forward to it. 
  
Q. A lot more still to play for. 
  
GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I'm off to Sun City and then off to Dubai. It's back at it tomorrow and disappointed right now and it will hurt this evening, but no biggy. We have got a few tournaments in us I would say.
  
The transcript for the above interview is courtesy of ASAP Sports.
 
		
	

		 
		  
		   ('Õ)  
		    
		      
		 
		 
		 

		 
		 
			
  
		 

		 Story Options 
		 
			 
				  
				  Send to a friend  
			 
			 
				    

				  Print this Story  
			 
			 
				    
				  Recommend this story  
			 
		 
		 
		 
		 GolfVite Updates 
				 
				
					
				
					
					  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
					  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
					  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
				 


		 
		    
		 
		 Headlines 
			 
					
				  Irish Team Disappointed in Final Round of World Cup  
				
				  Kuchar & Woodland Thrilled with World Cup Win  
				
				  Oldest Surviving Member of PGA Dies  
				
				  Never a Dull Moment at Reynolds Plantation's Golf Courses  
				
				  USA Rallies to Win World Cup  
				
			 

		 
		
		 
		 Related News 
			 
					
				  Talk About Having a Blast on the Golf Course  
				
				  New Pete Dye Course to be Irrigated with Saltwater  
				
				  Exotic Resort Enhanced with New Golf Holes  
				
				  GV Incentives Eases Golf Trips to Great Britain  
				
				  Comin Soon  
				
			 
		 
	
	 
	  


 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits