Oklahoma golf news and courses - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

 


      


  
  
	  

  
   
 
	

 
 
  

  
 
 
	 
		    
		  Ê  
		    
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  Course Guide Home  
				  Golf News  
				  Contact Us  
				  Mobile  
				  Register Your Course  
			 
		 
	 
	
					
 

	 
	 
		 
 
    
   
     

	

	

	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Patricia Island Golf Club  Visit Clubhouse  4980 Clubhouse Rd. Grove, OK 74344 
 www.patriciaisland.com  
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Meadowbrook Country Club  Visit Clubhouse  9300 East  81st Street Tulsa, OK 74133 
 www.meadowbrookcc.net 
 
  
	 
	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Forest Ridge Golf Course  Visit Clubhouse  7501 E. Kenosha Broken Arrow, OK  74014 
 www.forestridge.com 
 
  
	 
	

     
   
    
 
  
 
	



	 

		   Oklahoma Golf News   

		 

  Jimmie Austin OU Golf Club to Host 2013 U.S. Women's Amateur Public Links  

Jimmie Austin OU Golf Club in Norman, Okla., has been selected by the United States Golf Association to host the 2013 U.S. Women's Amat...
 


 
 

  LSU's Peterson Wins NCAA Championship  

Louisiana State's John Peterson shot a 72 Thursday to win the NCAA Men's Golf Championship. He finished 54 holes at Karsten Creek in Stillw...
 


 
 

  Match-Play Component Evens Playing Field in NCAA Men's Golf Championship  

by Tony Dear
  
You'd be hard pressed to come up with a plausible argument as to why Oklahoma State University isn't going to win it...
 


 
 

  Golden Age Flair for Two Tulsa Courses  

	

by Steve Habel
   
Imagine living in northeastern Oklahoma in the Roaring '20s as golf took a foothold in this part of America. In T...
 


 
 

  Fowler Discusses Upcoming Season  

Though a month away, the World Golf Championships Accenture Match Play Championship got rolling Tuesday with a media session to discuss this year's...
 


 
 

  Sisters Get Aces in Same Round  

Two sisters on the Central Oklahoma golf team got holes-in-one in the same round. Erica and Lindsey Bensch each pulled off the feat Tuesday at Kick...
 


 
 

  Oklahoma State Tops Men's College Poll  

The third Golf World/NGCA Division I Men's Coaches' Poll of the fall season has been released, combining the resources of Golf World ma...
 


 
 

  Work Continues on Tulsa CC  

Rees Jones is working on a carefully orchestrated, cost-effective course renovation of Tulsa Country Club in Oklahoma. The club, which date...
 


 
 

  Tasty Home Cooking in Tulsa by Heckenkemper   

	

by Steve Habel
  
There is an old axiom that, when paraphrased, says most recognition for work well done is reaped from afar. Someti...
 


 
 

  OSU Tops Preseason Men's College Golf Poll   

For the second straight year, Oklahoma State sits atop Division I's preseason men's college poll. The Cowboys, runner-ups at last year's NCAA Champ...
 


 


		
			
				 Visual Feast & Great Design Herald Success at Patriot GC  
			
				 Inaugural Patriot Cup Set for Memorial Day Weekend at New Patriot GC  
			
				 OKC's Lake Hefner North Golf Course is a Municipal Jewel  
			
				 The Old Still Defines the New at Jimmie Austin OU Golf Club  
			
				 Revived Oak Tree National Demands its Pound of Flesh  
			
				 Kite's Work at Gaillardia Brings Hazards to Forefront  
			
				 Golf in Southern Oklahoma Boosted by Homes & Native American Gaming  
			
				 Remodel of Oak Tree National Complete  
			
				 The Patriot Designed by Robert Trent Jones II  
			
				 The Patriot Designed by Robert Trent Jones II  
			
				 The Territory in Southwest Oklahoma   
			
				 Stonebridge Near Tulsa Opens for Play   
			
		
	 

		 	

		 

		
		
			
		
			
		
			
		
			
			
				  Tulsa Area  
			
			
			 
				  Forest Ridge Golf Course  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Meadowbrook Country Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		
			
			
			
			 
				  Patricia Island Golf Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		

		 
	 
 
	 
	
			   Course Updates  
			
			  
					  
				  Patricia Island Golf Club  You still have a few weeks left of great weather!   
		
			  
					  
				  Meadowbrook Country Club  Wow!!!  What a "cool" day!!  
		
		 

		 
			   Web Specials  
			
			  
					
  
				  Come Stay and Play with US!  Patricia Island Golf Club 
					
						11-11-10
					
					
						to 12-31-10
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  MeadowBrook Golf Ball Blow-out  Meadowbrook Country Club 
					
						08-05-09
					
					
						to 08-31-09
					
			  
		
			  
					
  
				  Lunch Included  Winter Creek G&CC 
					
						07-06-10
					
					
						to 08-31-10
					
			  
		
	  
		
    Clubhouse Updates  
						
					
				
					
						   Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
						   AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
						   bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					

 
	 
	 
		   Golfers looking for partners  


	
	 
	 
		
		
		 Tommy Ryan 
		 11/29/11 at 04:33PM
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	0 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 johnslakjs 
		 11/12/11 at 08:06AM
	 
	  Sample Business 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 golferrick22 
		 10/06/11 at 09:04AM
	 
	  findagolfer.com 
	5 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 jlara 
		 09/26/11 at 11:30AM
	 
	  Clear Creek Golf Course 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

 
 

 


	  
	  Ê
  

 
 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits