Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Nevada  Ç Reno/Tahoe Area 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Reno/Tahoe Area Golf News  
			 

  Las Vegas Golf Hall of Fame to Induct Three New Members  

The Las Vegas Golf Hall of Fame will induct three new members at a special ceremony and dinner being held November 5 at TPC Summerlin. Having contr...
 


 
 

  Na Holds on for Maiden PGA Tour Win  

Kevin Na began the final round of the Justin Timberlake Shriners Hospitals for Children Open in Las Vegas tied for the lead with Nick Watney. 
 


 
 

  Byrd Hopes to Soar Again in Vegas  

Jonathan Byrd brought the 2010 Justin Timberlake Shriners Hospitals for Children Open in Las Vegas to an abrupt end. On the fourth playoff hole - t...
 


 
 

  Be a 'Divine 9' Writer  

by Blaine Newnham
  
To what lengths does a group of golf courses promote themselves, especially living in the shadow of the fancy r...
 


 
 

  Byrd Relives Dramatic Ace in Vegas  

Defending champion Jonathan Byrd was on hand Tuesday to relive perhaps the most dramatic ending to a tournament last year. On the fourth playoff ho...
 


 
 

  Stallion Mountain Set to Reopen  

Stallion Mountain Golf Club in Las Vegas has been acquired by a Colorado-based ownership group and is set to reopen for play this summer. Located j...
 


 
 

  Jimmer to Play in American Century Championship  

Jimmer Fredette, the All-American guard for Brigham Young University will join the field in the American Century Championship July 12-17 at Edgewoo...
 


 
 

  10th Annual Michael Jordan Celebrity Invitational in late March  

Sports and entertainment stars Drew Brees, Wayne Gretzky, Ken Griffey, Jr., Marcus Allen, Mario Lemieux, Mia Hamm, Bori...
 


 
 

  Las Vegas Superintendent Earns National Award  

Golf course superintendent P.J. McGuire, director of golf course maintenance for Par 4 Golf Management Co. in Las Vegas, has been selected ...
 


 
 

  Greg Maddux-Butch Harmon Invitational Surpasses $1 Million for Las Vegas Charitable Organizations  

	

For many years the Greg Maddux Foundation has worked hard, quietly raising funds and awareness for several worthy Las Vegas charities. Maddux and h...
 


 


		
			
				 Elegance & Oddity: Las Vegas through the Eyes of a Golfer  
			
				 Aria at City Center in Vegas to Host Michael Jordan Celebrity Invitational in 2011  
			
				 Three New Members for Vegas Golf Hall of Fame  
			
				 Bali Hai: Polynesia in the Desert  
			
				 Royal Links in Vegas Simulates British Open Venues  
			
				 Royal Links in Vegas Simulates British Open Venues  
			
				 Stallion Mountain Golf Club to Be Auctioned August 16  
			
				 Natural Elements Make TPC Las Vegas Special  
			
				 Going to Carolina in the Pines . . . via Las Vegas  
			
				 Boulder City Offers Top-Notch Golf Away from The Strip's Glitz   
			
				 Barkley Donates $90,000 More to Tahoe-Area Fire Victims  
			
				 Former NFL MVP Discusses Favorite Courses in Lake Tahoe Area  
			
				 Barkley Comes Clean on his Chances in American Century Championship  
			
				 Stay & Play in Vegas  
			
				 Spanish Trail Completes Renovation of Canyon Course  
			
				 Spanish Trail Completes Renovation of Canyon Course  
			
				 Timilick Tahoe Opens for Play  
			
				 Timilick Tahoe Opens for Play  
			
				 Renoblog6  
			
				 Renoblog6  
			
				 Renoblog6  
			
				 Renoblog5  
			
				 Renoblog5  
			
				 Renoblog5  
			
				 Renoblog4  
			
				 Renoblog4  
			
				 Renoblog4  
			
				 Renoblog3  
			
				 Renoblog3  
			
				 Renoblog3  
			
				 Renoblog2  
			
				 Renoblog2  
			
				 Renoblog1  
			
				 Renoblog1  
			
				 Renoblog1  
			
				 Spanish Trail Golf And Country Club Set To Unveil $15 Million Renovation  
			
				 Spanish Trail Golf And Country Club Set To Unveil $15 Million Renovation  
			
				 How to Survive Playing Nine Courses in a Day  
			
				 Angel Park & Legacy Remove Turf to Lower Water Usage  
			
				 Major Project at Spanish Trail Nearly Complete  
			
				 Las Vegas Courses Conserve a Billion Gallons of Water   
			
				 Las Vegas Researcher to Seek Ways to Save Golf Courses, Water  
			
				 Golf in Reno-Tahoe  
			
				 Genoa Lakes & Sierra Nevada Golf Resort Merge  
			
				 Aliante Offers Country?s Most Expensive Golf Certificate  
			
				 New PGA Village Slated for Southern Nevada  
			
				 The Revere at Anthem  
			
				 Brothel Owner To Take Swing at Golf  
			
				 Brothel Owner To Take Swing at Golf  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Reno/Tahoe Area
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Reno/Tahoe Area Golf Courses 
			
 
 Carson Valley Golf Course  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 




			 
		  Reno/Tahoe Area Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits