Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Oregon  Ç Greater Portland Area 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Portland Area Golf News  
			 

  Favorite Designers: David McLay Kidd  

	

by Tony Dear
   
What's your definition of greatness? Can a schoolteacher be thought of as a great educator if he helps guide the gi...
 


 
 

  PNGA Announces 2011 Players of the Year   

The Pacific Northwest Golf Association (PNGA) has announced the 2011 Player of the Year recipients. The winners include Chris Williams of Moscow...
 


 
 

  Amateurs Win Hudson Cup  

Thanks to a three-point lead heading into Friday's singles matches, the Amateur team hung on to beat the Professional squad in the 63rd Hudson Cup....
 


 
 

  Northwest Golf Media Association Announces Annual Awards  

At the 12th annual awards banquet of the Northwest Golf Media Association, John Bodenhamer, longtime head of the Pacific Northwest Golf Ass...
 


 
 

  Pan Wins The Prestige at PGA West; Oregon Takes Team Title  

In only his second collegiate tournament, Cheng-Tsung Pan, a freshman at the University of Washington, overcame a top field at PGA West in La Quint...
 


 
 

  Pan Wins The Prestige at PGA West; Oregon Takes Team Title  

In only his second collegiate tournament, Cheng-Tsung Pan, a freshman at the University of Washington, overcame a top field at PGA West in La Quint...
 


 
 

  Feenstra Wins Pacific Northwest PGA Professional Championship  

Tim Feenstra of Broadmoor Golf Club in Seattle beat Scott Erdmann of Oswego Lake Country Club in Lake Oswego, Ore., on the first playoff ho...
 


 
 

  Designing 'Playable' Golf Courses  

	

by Blaine Newnham
  
Phil Mickelson wasn't whining. He was just stating the obvious. Many of today's golf courses are too difficult ...
 


 
 

  Two New Jacobsen Hardy Treats in the Northwest  

	

by Jeff Shelley
  
Peter Jacobsen has become an icon in Northwest golf circles. The personality-plus touring pro from Portland has n...
 


 
 

  Frohnmayer Victorious in USGA Senior Women's Amateur  

Terri Frohnmayer, a 55-year-old from Salem, Ore., who is nicknamed "Little Bit," was a giant-killer in defeating Mina Hardin, 51, of Fort Worth, Te...
 


 


		
			
				 Coston Wins Sixth Straight Pacific Northwest PGA Professional Title  
			
				 A Visit to Pronghorn in Central Oregon  
			
				 Elkington & McCarron Win Umpqua Bank Challenge  
			
				 Men's, Women's & Senior Public Links Champs Crowned  
			
				 Williams Wins Pacific Coast Amateur  
			
				 Jacobsen Recognizes Father's Influence in His Love for the Game  
			
				 Jacobsen to Receive Old Tom Morris Award   
			
				 Bandon Dunes Proposing another 27 Holes  
			
				 Ziegler Wins PNGA Women's Amateur  
			
				 Andrew Named New PNGA & WSGA Executive Director  
			
				 Do Nabs Women's Public Links Title  
			
				 Medalist Mills Wins U.S. Public Links  
			
				 Erdmann Takes Third-Round Lead in PGA Professional National Championship  
			
				 Preview of the 2011 U.S. Women's Amateur Public Links Championship  
			
				 Facts & Storylines for the 2011 U.S. Amateur Public Links Championship  
			
				 U.S. Men's & Women's Public Links Coming Up at Bandon Dunes  
			
				 Bodenhamer Named USGA's Senior Managing Director of Rules, Competition and Amateur Status  
			
				 Bodenhamer Will be Missed in Northwest Golf Circles  
			
				 A Round of Golf with Mike Keiser - The Visionary behind Bandon Dunes  
			
				 Memories of Brian Lanker - My Best Friend  
			
				 Bandon Dunes - Worth the Effort of Getting There  
			
				 Bandon Dunes Update  
			
				 The Building of the Par-3 Course at Bandon Dunes  
			
				 A Winter's Tale - Golf Shines on the Oregon Coast  
			
				 Regional Golf Associations Announce New Fundraising Event  
			
				 The Return of 'Peter's Party'  
			
				 Oregon's Golf Economy Estimated at $1.2 Billion; Contributes More than 27,000 Jobs  
			
				 Yes Victoria, You Have Great Golf  
			
				 Whitaker Wins PNGA Men's Mid-Amateur  
			
				 Last Year for Jeld-Wen Tradition  
			
				 Last Year for Jeld-Wen Tradition  
			
				 Oregon Teen Makes History  
			
				 A Legend in Northwest Golf Passes  
			
				 The First Decade of Bandon Dunes  
			
				 Old Macdonald Course at Bandon Gets Ratings  
			
				 Excitement Grows Over Old Macdonald  
			
				 What do John Daly, The Blues Brothers, & the Olympic Games Have in Common?             
			
				 Bally Bandon Sheep Ranch: A Throwback to Simpler Times  
			
				 Portland Golf Entrepreneur Lays Down $1 Million Challenge  
			
				 Old Macdonald Comes to Bandon Dunes  
			
				 New Owners of Tetherow Golf Club   
			
				 Fourth Course at Bandon Dunes to Open for Limited Play  
			
				 Golembiewski Replaces Legend at Oregon State University  
			
				 Tetherow Opens in Central Oregon  
			
				 Tetherow Opens in Central Oregon  
			
				 Tetherow Opens in Central Oregon  
			
				 Old Macdonald Has a Course  
			
				 Old Macdonald Has a Course  
			
				 Old Macdonald Has a Course  
			
				 Pronghorn Recognized As One Of America's Top Communities  
			
				 Doak Working on New Course at Bandon Dunes  
			
				 Club at Brasada Canyons Delivers Drama in Central Oregon  
			
				 Caldera Links & Golf Park at Sunriver Set to Open  
			
				 The Genesis of Designing a Course  
			
				 Grants Pass Golfer Plays Through Handicap  
			
				 Ground Broken on Doak-Designed Course in Central Oregon   
			
				 Another Big Golf Development Coming to Central Oregon  
			
				 Environmentally-Friendly Grass Seed Being Produced in Oregon  
			
				 Big Changes Underway in Medford Golf Scene  
			
				 Tillamook Project Moving Forward  
			
				 Expansion of Oregon Ski Area Draws Fire  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Portland Area
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Portland Area Golf Courses 
			
 
 Langdon Farms  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Meriwether National Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Colwood National Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Stone Creek Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Columbia Edgewater CC  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Quail Valley   
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Charbonneau Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Heron Lakes  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Chehalem Glenn  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Claremont Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 

 Ê  Web Specials  
 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



			 
		  Greater Portland Area Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits