Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Georgia  Ç Greater Atlanta 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Atlanta Golf News  
			 

  UCLA Wins U.S. Collegiate Championship  

No. 3 UCLA finished with a team score of 852 (-12) to edge fellow Pac-12 member Washington and Auburn by three strokes to win the U.S. Collegiate C...
 


 
 

  New Hospitality Area Underway at Augusta National  

Masters Tournament patrons will have a new place to enjoy fine good and drink at the 2013 event at Augusta National. Construction has started on th...
 


 
 

  Georgia Wins 2011 USGA Women's State Team on Home Turf  

As the sunlight began to fade behind the large clubhouse at The Landings Club's Palmetto Course late Thursday afternoon, a large cheer went...
 


 
 

  No Bluffing . . . Golf a Romantic Affair at Cabin Bluff  

	

by Elisa Gaudet
  
"Golf is very much like a love affair,. If you don't take it seriously, it's no fun, if you do, it breaks your he...
 


 
 

  Bradley Doesn't Blink  

After a triple-bogey on the controversial, water-laden 260-yard par-3 15th at Atlanta Athletic Club's Highlands Course, Keegan Bradley decided to n...
 


 
 

  Bradley Wins PGA Championship  

On a day when several players had a chance to win the 93rd PGA Championship, 25-year-old Keegan Bradley survived the difficult final holes at Atlan...
 


 
 

  Is Rees Jones the Politician of Golf Architects?  

 by Jay Flemma
  
"When Tiger Woods wins at Bethpage, or Phil Mickelson wins at Baltusrol, that's the result we're trying to achieve...
 


 
 

  Hotlanta! Plenty to Do in the Host City of the PGA Championship  

by Jay Flemma
  
I always get a kick out of the TV show Futurama's hilarious send-up of the ATL Chamber of Commerce video where folk...
 


 
 

  Cupp's Work at Reynolds Plantation Set Table for Great Golf Community  

	

by Steve Habel
  
When people think of Georgia, the first thought that comes to mind is either peaches, Ray Charles's iconic song ab...
 


 
 

  Woods Faces Media in Atlanta  

After playing nine practice holes on Tuesday at Atlanta Athletic Club, site of this week's PGA Championship, Tiger Woods was surrounded by security...
 


 


		
			
				 Scott Looks for Two in a Row; Addresses Williams Issue  
			
				 Is this Luke Donald's Week?  
			
				 Schwartzel Seeks Second Major in 2011  
			
				 European Chances at the PGA Championship  
			
				 Atlanta Athletic Club - Once Again the PGA Championship is 'Glory's Best Shot  
			
				 Player to Join Palmer & Nicklaus as Honorary Masters Starter  
			
				 Atlanta Athletic Club Awaits 93rd PGA Championship  
			
				 Georgia Golfer to Receive Honda Sports Award  
			
				 Economic Study Reports Golf Drives $2.4 Billion into Georgia's Economy  
			
				 Mickelson Discusses Upcoming Masters  
			
				 Fairways at Canton near Atlanta to be Revived  
			
				 Kuchar Thrilled with 2010 Season  
			
				 Love Affair in Sea Island  
			
				 Overview of Tour Championship  
			
				 Atlanta Athletic Club Picked for 2014 U.S. Amateur   
			
				 Beautiful Savannah & Its Great Courses  
			
				 Jack & Arnie to be Co-Starters at Masters   
			
				 Georgia Superintendent earns National Environmental Award  
			
				 Hills/Forrest Renovation Keys Centennial Tourney-fest at Columbus CC  
			
				 Dye Designs Sixth Course at Reynolds Plantation  
			
				 Audubon Trail Becomes Economic Engine for Louisiana  
			
				 Mike Young to Design New Golf Course in Costa Rica   
			
				 Course Review: The Creek Club at Reynolds Plantation  
			
				 Gold Creek to Get Total Rebuild by Smyers  
			
				 Creek Club at Reynolds Plantation Open for Members  
			
				 Atlanta Athletic Club to Renovate Highlands Course  
			
				 Reynolds Plantation Announces New Names For Cupp Course, And Community   
			
				 Polo Golf Course Getting Renovated  
			
				 The Creek at Hard Labor in Georgia to Re-open Soon  
			
				 Osprey Cove Course Renovations Complete  
			
				 Golf Course & Conservation Community Blooming Near Augusta  
			
				 Love to Design Exclusive Course in Georgia  
			
				 Play Golf at Kenny Rogers? Personal Course  
			
				 Georgia Course to Get Shark Treatment  
			
				 Tom Doak Design Coming to Georgia  
			
				 Crafting Erosion Solutions with Gabion Baskets  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Atlanta
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Atlanta Golf Courses 
			
 
 Legacy Golf at Windy Hill  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Reunion Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Woodmont  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 The Hooch  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Steel Canyon Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Stone Mountain  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 The Frog Golf Club   
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Cobblestone Golf Course  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Hampton Golf Village  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 RiverPines Golf  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Charlie Yates Golf Course  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Hawks Ridge Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Cateechee Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 






 
 The Georgia Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 

 Ê  Web Specials  
 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



			 
		  Greater Atlanta Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits