Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Arizona  Ç Tucson Area 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Tucson Area Golf News  
			 

  Charles Schwab Cup Championship Moving to Desert Mountain in 2012   

The Champions Tour and Desert Mountain Club have announced that its season-ending event, the Charles Schwab Cup Championship, will be hosted next y...
 


 
 

  The Name's the Game at The Gallery Golf Club  

	

by Steve Habel
  
If you are going to call a golf course facility "The Gallery" you best make sure the property is chock full of hol...
 


 
 

  Ernie Els' Autism Fundraiser Set for May at TPC Scottsdale  

The largest charity-driven, national golf series in the United States, "Els for Autism Golf Challenge" will stage one of its 30 Super Regio...
 


 
 

  The Arizona Biltmore: Inspired by Design  

	

by George Fuller
   
A stay at the Arizona Biltmore has always been an experience to write home about . . . the Frank Lloyd Wright-i...
 


 
 

  Golf Writers' Extravaganza: The Xona Golf Media Classic  

	

by Joel Zuckerman
  
It is a FAM (short for "familiarity") trip like no other. As a golf-travel writer, I have journeyed far and wid...
 


 
 

  Subtlety Usurps Length at Ritz-Carlton Golf Club at Dove Mountain   

	

by Steve Habel
  
A lot of the publicity surrounding the Ritz-Carlton Golf Club at Dove Mountain now hosting the WGC Accenture Match...
 


 
 

  LPGA Touts Founders Cup  

It's impossible to say the LPGA Tour's inaugural Founders Cup has gone unnoticed by the players. The event, which will be held March 18-20 at Wildf...
 


 
 

  Will Lefty Opt out of Match Play Championship?  

Set to make his PGA Tour debut this week in the Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines, Phil Mickelson said he's "50-50" on whether or not he'll pl...
 


 
 

  Hot Stix Continues to Thrive  

	

by Joel Zuckerman
   
Despite his many personal failings, there remains much to admire about Tiger Woods as a golfer. And beyond abi...
 


 
 

  Caddy For A Cure Kicks off 2011 at Waste Management Phoenix Open   

Caddy For A Cure, Inc., which provides an opportunity to caddie for a day with a PGA Tour player, is offering its first experience of 2...
 


 


		
			
				 StoneRidge is a Rollicking Rollercoaster of a Good Time   
			
				 The Phoenician - An Arizona Classic on Top of its Game  
			
				 Tubac Resort to Hold Junior Golf Benefit Tournament  
			
				 TPC Scottsdale Much More than Parties & Famous 16th Hole  
			
				 Boulders Resort & We-Ko-Pa Far from 'B-Sides'  
			
				 Troon North Golf Club Set the Bar High for Arizona Courses  
			
				 High Desert Masterpiece at Dove Mountain  
			
				 Arizona Courses Suffering  
			
				 Papago Continues with Upgrades  
			
				 Talking Rock Bucks Trends with Great Course & Community Vibes  
			
				 Two Great - and Very Different - Courses in the Valley of the Sun  
			
				 Arizona State Coach Named to Coaches' Hall of Fame  
			
				 Construction & Grassing Complete on Nicklaus Course in Arizona  
			
				 La Paloma Country Club to Renovate Course  
			
				 La Paloma Country Club to Renovate Course  
			
				 Work Begins on Restoration of Papago Golf Course  
			
				 Work Underway on Upscale Resort Project in Arizona   
			
				 Over 200,000 Golf Balls to be Sent to Troops in Middle East  
			
				 Coldwater Adds Polish & Excitement  
			
				 OB Sports to Oversee Operations of Talking Rock   
			
				 Thunderbird Tees Up Leadership Program at Westin Kierland Resort  
			
				 TPC Scottsdale to Get Facelift, Updated Logo & New Name  
			
				 I.R.I. Golf Group to Lease & Manage Raven GC  
			
				 Renovations Completed At Starr Pass Country Club & Spa   
			
				 Wigwam Restored to Former Glory  
			
				 Lehman Designs New Nine for Omni Tucson National Golf Resort  
			
				 Golf in Scottsdale ? Between The Rocks and a Hard Place  
			
				 Keeping it in the Family  
			
				 New Clubhouse at The Duke at Rancho El Dorado  
			
				 Longbow Golf Club Reopens  
			
				 Aviara: Where Golf is First & Foremost  
			
				 Construction Underway on New Del Webb Project near Scottsdale  
			
				 Massive Project Underway in West Valley Section of Phoenix  
			
				 We-Ko-Pa Deals Golfers an Ace in the Desert  
			
				 The Golf Villas at Oro Valley: An Introduction  
			
				 Breathtaking & Exhilarating: Gold Canyon Golf Resort  
			
				 Ocotillo Golf Club: Golf at an Oasis  
			
				 Torres Blancas Golf Club  
			
				 Starr Pass Resort  
			
				 SunRidge Canyon Golf Club  
			
				 Tatum Ranch Golf  
			
				 Anthem Golf & Country Club Offers Many Amenities  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Tucson Area
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Tucson Area Golf Courses 
			
 
 Vistoso Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Arizona National Golf Club   
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Forty Niner Country Club   
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Canoa Hills Golf Club   
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 San Ignacio Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



			 
		  Tucson Area Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits