Rhode Island golf news and courses - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

 


      


  
  
	  

  
   
 
	

 
 
  

  
 
 
	 
		    
		  Ê  
		    
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  Course Guide Home  
				  Golf News  
				  Contact Us  
				  Mobile  
				  Register Your Course  
			 
		 
	 
	
					
 

	 
	 
		 
 
    
   
     

     
   
    
 
  
 
	



	 

		   Rhode Island Golf News   

		 

  Kang Retains U.S. Women's Amateur Title  

Danielle Kang successfully defended her title in the U.S. Women's Amateur. The 18-year-old from Westlake Village, Calif., beat 17-year-old Moriya J...
 


 
 

  Kim & Ko Share Medalist Honors in U.S. Women's Amateur  

Jihee Kim of South Korea and Lydia Ko of New Zealand shared medalist honors after finishing the 36-hole, stroke-play portion of the U.S. Women&...
 


 
 

  U.S. Women's Amateur Overview  

The nation's oldest women's amateur golf championship began Monday at Rhode Island Country Club. This will mark the fifth USGA championship held at...
 


 
 

  Combining Golf & Tennis in Newport, R.I.   

	

by John Torsiello
  
Golf and tennis go together like . . . well . . . the words "country" and "club." The two sports have been syno...
 


 
 

  Rulewich & Fleury Golf Design Created  

Golf course architect Roger Rulewich and his longtime associate and protege, David Fleury, have announced the formation of their new firm, Rulewich...
 


 
 

  Andrade-Faxon Raise Funds For Children  

Billy Andrade and Brad Faxon, through their charity Andrade-Faxon Charities for Children, will send kids to camp, pay for heating oil a...
 


 
 

  Volunteers Needed for 2006 U.S. Women?s Open In Newport R.I.  

Volunteer applications are now available for the 61st U.S. Women's Open Championship to be held June 26-July 2, 2006 at Newport Country Clu...
 


 
 

  Governor Christens New Club in Rhode Island  

Rhode Island Governor Donald L. Carcieri struck a ceremonial first tee shot on September 4 to mark the official opening of the golf course at Shelt...
 


 


		
	 

		 	

		 

		
		

		 
	 
 
	 
	
			   Course Updates  
			
		 

		 
			   Web Specials  
			
	  
		
    Clubhouse Updates  
						
					
				
					
						   Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
						   AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
						   bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					

 
	 
	 
		   Golfers looking for partners  


	
	 
	 
		
		
		 Tommy Ryan 
		 11/29/11 at 04:33PM
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	0 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 johnslakjs 
		 11/12/11 at 08:06AM
	 
	  Sample Business 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 golferrick22 
		 10/06/11 at 09:04AM
	 
	  findagolfer.com 
	5 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 jlara 
		 09/26/11 at 11:30AM
	 
	  Clear Creek Golf Course 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

 
 

 


	  
	  Ê
  

 
 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits