Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Tennessee  Ç Greater Nashville 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Nashville Golf News  
			 

  Frohnmayer Victorious in USGA Senior Women's Amateur  

Terri Frohnmayer, a 55-year-old from Salem, Ore., who is nicknamed "Little Bit," was a giant-killer in defeating Mina Hardin, 51, of Fort Worth, Te...
 


 
 

  Timberlake's Course Flooded  

Justin Timberlake's Mirimichi Golf Club in Millington, Tenn., has been deluged with water because of the flooding that's been sweep...
 


 
 

  Pop Star Enjoys Hosting Tournament & Golf  

Justin Timberlake isn't your ordinary pop star or golfer. The 29-year-old, who gained fame as the lead singer for 'N Sync, is hosting the Justin Ti...
 


 
 

  Timberlake's Mirimichi Closes for Renovations  

	

by Steve Habel
  
Thanks to input from native son and popular singer and actor Justin Timberlake, the track formerly known as Big Cr...
 


 
 

  Westhaven Bucks Trends, Debuts outside Nashville  

	

The course designers at Hills/Forrest continue to open new golf courses, even as facilities close, projects are abandoned and the overall stock of ...
 


 
 

  Hitting the Greens in the Home of the Blues  

	

by Steve Habel
  
There is plenty to do in Memphis, a place where the Mississippi River meets the southwestern corner of Tennessee. ...
 


 
 

  Governors Club Unveils Newly Reconstructed 18-Hole Course  

	

Only eight months after announcing they were breaking ground on two reconstructed holes and upgraded tee boxes, the Governors Club in Brentwood, Te...
 


 
 

  New Management Firm Improving Knoxville's Whittle Springs  

Billy Casper Golf ("BCG") is now operating Whittle Springs for the city of Knoxville, Tenn., and the company in the process of enhancing the course...
 


 
 

  Bergin to Design Another Course at Fairvue Plantation   

The golf course at Nashville's Fairvue Plantation has been so well received the developers of the city's only lakefront community have deci...
 


 
 

  Hills to Design New Course in Franklin, Tennessee  

Well-regarded golf course architect Arthur Hills has been retained by Southern Land Company (SLC) to design an 18-hole course in Westhaven, a new 1...
 


 


		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Nashville
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Nashville Golf Courses 
			
 
 Nashboro Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 WindTree Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Greystone Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 The Governors Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Temple Hills Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Kings Creek Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Pine Creek Golf Course  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



			 
		  Greater Nashville Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits