Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Pennsylvania  Ç Greater Philadelphia  
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Philadelphia  Golf News  
			 

  Oldest Surviving Member of PGA Dies  

The oldest member of the PGA of America has passed away. Joseph J. "Bud" Lewis died November 22nd at his home at Wyncote, Pa., at the age o...
 


 
 

  Saucon Valley CC to Host 2014 U.S. Mid-Amateur  

Saucon Valley Country Club, in Bethlehem, Pa., has been selected by the United States Golf Association as the site of the 2014 U.S. Mid...
 


 
 

  Pocono Mountains Escape Storms Relatively Unscathed  

	

The Pocono Mountains are preparing for a busy Labor Day travel weekend, as reports of minor tropical weather impact are released through the four-c...
 


 
 

  Three More Players Named to 2011 USA Walker Cup Team  

Three more players have been added to the 10-member 2011 USA Walker Cup Team by the International Team Selection Committee of the United States Gol...
 


 
 

  Heck of a Good Golf Course in the Poconos  

	

by John Torsiello
  
As my wife Norene and I were driving to the Woodloch Resort we wondered just where the heck this place was that...
 


 
 

  Hutsell Wins PGA Professional National Championship  

David Hutsell got to erase some disappointment yesterday in the 44th PGA Professional National Championship at Hershey Country Club in Pennsylvania. 
 


 
 

  Tiger at AT&T National  

Tiger Woods is at Aronimink Golf Club in Newtown Square, Pa., for this week's AT&T National. Unfortunately for him and Philadelphia-area golf fans,...
 


 
 

  New Nicklaus Course Opens in Pennsylvania   

As the youngest son of golf legend Jack Nicklaus, Mike Nicklaus brings a unique outlook to the golf course design table. His educational backgr...
 


 
 

  Small Set to Defend PGA Professional National Championship  

Mike Small strolled through Hershey Park in Pennsylvania, watching visitors climb into one of 11 roller coasters, while others munched on e...
 


 
 

  Pocono Mountains Set to Host 20th Annual Ice Tee Golf Tournament at Lake Wallenpaupack   

	

January 13, 2011. The golf season returns from winter hiatus in the Pocono Mountains  (800poconos.com) on Sunday, January 30, when the 20th Annual ...
 


 


		
			
				 Smith Wins Third U.S. Mid-Amateur Title  
			
				 Hershey CC to Host 2012 Senior Women's Amateur  
			
				 101-Year-Old Pro Spends Birthday Analyzing Golf Swings  
			
				 75th Anniversary of Pocono Mountains Bureau  
			
				 Handbook Available for Greener Golf Courses  
			
				 Pittsburgh-Area Golf Course Sold   
			
				 Kay's Renovation of Llanerch CC Paves Way for 50th Anniversary  
			
				 Kay's Renovation of Llanerch CC Paves Way for 50th Anniversary  
			
				 Scott-Taylor Designs Six-hole Course in Pennsylvania  
			
				 Scott-Taylor Designs Six-hole Course in Pennsylvania  
			
				 Hershey Country Club's West Course to be Renovated  
			
				 Philadelphia Cricket Club to Host 2010 U.S. Women's Mid-Amateur   
			
				 Renovations at Meadowlands CC Continue   
			
				 A Look at Lederach Golf Club  
			
				 Bedford Springs Reopens  
			
				 Two Pennsylvania Courses Qualify for Audubon Sanctuary Status  
			
				 Work on Jack Frost National Golf Club Finishing Up   
			
				 Course at Mount Airy Resort to Be Remodeled  
			
				 Lederach Golf Club Opens in Eastern Pennsylvania  
			
				 New Operator for Reading CC  
			
				 Inniscrone Golf Club Changes Hands  
			
				 Company Has Big Plans for Pocono Manor Resort  
			
				 Expansion of School Won't Affect Wren Dale Golf Course  
			
				 Frontier Pioneers Use of New-generation GPS at Hidden Valley  
			
				 Raven's Claw Opens New Clubhouse & Learning Center   
			
				 Spring Creek in Hershey to Undergo Renovations  
			
				 Tamiment GC In The Poconos Gets New Ownership and Management  
			
				 Gap to Renew Development Program  
			
				 Not Your Typical Day at the Lake  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Philadelphia 
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Philadelphia  Golf Courses 
			
 
 Makefield Highlands  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Spring Hollow Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Royal Oaks Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Monroe Valley Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Paxon Hollow CC  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Heidelberg Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Inniscrone Golf Course  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Hartefeld National  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Broad Run Golfers Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



			 
		  Greater Philadelphia  Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits