Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Wisconsin  Ç Greater Madison 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Madison Golf News  
			 

  Kraft Wins U.S. Amateur  

Kelly Kraft of Ryan, Texas, survived a tough golf course and a gritty opponent to win the 111th U.S. Amateur. Kraft, a three-time Conference USA Pl...
 


 
 

  Cantlay & Kraft to Meet in Championship Match of U.S. Amateur  

USA Walker Cup Team member Patrick Cantlay, 19, of Los Alamitos, Calif., will meet Kelly Kraft, 21, of Denton, Texas, in Sunday's 36-hole champions...
 


 
 

  U.S. Amateur Update: Medalist Main Falls in Match Play  

Bobby Leopold, a 26-year-old insurance professional from Cranston, R.I., defeated stroke-play medalist Gregor Main, 22, of Danville, Calif., 2 and ...
 


 
 

  Uihlein Edges First Match-Play Opponent in Weather-Delayed U.S. Amateur  

Defending champion Peter Uihlein, 21, of Orlando, Fla., began his title defense with a 3-and-1 win Wednesday over Eugene Wong, 20, of Canada in the...
 


 
 

  Main Earns Medalist Honors in U.S. Amateur  

Gregor Main of Danville, Calif., took medalist honors after 36 holes of stroke-play qualifying in the U.S. Amateur. Main finished at 10-under 132 o...
 


 
 

  Three Share Medalist Lead in Weather-Delayed U.S. Amateur at Erin Hills  

Sixteen-year-old Beau Hossler of Mission Viejo, Calif., along with Blayne Barber, 21, of Lake City, Fla., and Ben Geyer,...
 


 
 

  Superintendent has Erin Hills ready for U.S. Amateur   

Golf Course Superintendents Association of America member Zach Reineking, the superintendent at Erin Hills Golf Course, is preparing a fast...
 


 
 

  2011 U.S. Amateur Starts Monday at Erin Hills  

The 111th U.S. Amateur Championship teed off Monday, 
August 22nd, at Erin Hills Golf Course in Erin, Wis. At 7,760 yards, the par-72 Erin Hills s...
 


 
 

  Wisconsin's Door County is a Golf Destination, Too  

	

by Steve Habel
  
Bucolic Door County, Wis., which encompasses the arm of land extending northeast that separates Lake Michigan from...
 


 
 

  Sunset on Watney's Day May be Sunrise on his Career  

	

by Jay Flemma
  
It's 7:50 p.m.  The sun is setting is setting on Whistling Straits, but third-round leader Nick Watney is still on ...
 


 


		
			
				 Fog Delays Make Potpourri out of PGA Championship Leaderboard  
			
				 Surf Wisconsin - How to Ride the Turbulent Holes at Whistling Straits  
			
				 U.S. Ryder Cup Captain Stands Ground against 'Pushy' Broadcaster  
			
				 A Day in the Life of a Professional Caddie  
			
				 Pete Dye on Whistling Straits  
			
				 Erin Hills Named 2017 U.S. Open Site; Pebble Beach to Host 2018 U.S. Amateur & '19 Open  
			
				 'Behind the Greens' New Web Series for 92nd PGA Championship  
			
				 2nd Annual Andy North & Friends Golf Classic to Benefit the University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center  
			
				 Advance Ticket Sale Date Set for 2010 PGA Championship   
			
				 Westmoor Renovations Wrapping Up for Winter  
			
				 LGD to Break Ground on Westmoor Renovation  
			
				 LGD to Break Ground on Westmoor Renovation  
			
				 Wild Rock to Open Soon in Wisconsin  
			
				 Trying to Become a 'Compelling Average Golfer'  
			
				 UW-Stout Launches Golf Enterprise Management Program  
			
				 The New Club At Strawberry Creek Proceeding Nicely  
			
				 Whistling Straits Named as Site for PGA Championships & Ryder Cup Matches  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Madison
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Madison Golf Courses 
			
 
 Chula Vista Golf Resort  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



			 
		  Greater Madison Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits