Golf Photography - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 

	 Golf Photography 
	

		 

  The Cameraman Never Lies  

	

by Tony Dear
  
You'd think taking pictures of golf courses would be a pretty safe way to earn a living. Most of the time it is, but...
 


 
 

  Tales of Wayward Buggies  

	

by Aidan Bradley
  
Recently I got the urge to put pen to paper again and, on reflection, I attempted to discern why I agreed to emb...
 


 
 

  Come Fly with Me  

	

by Aidan Bradley
  
On a recent trip to Ireland I packed a large bottle of my favorite Irish whiskey in my carry-on luggage. I know,...
 


 
 

  Photogenic Pechanga  

	

The new course at Pechanga Resort & Casino in Temecula, Calif., is quite attractive. On occasion, Cybergolf will devote space for a photo essay cel...
 


 
 

  Punta Cana, Helga & Driving in the Dominican  

	

by Aidan Bradley
  
Just flew from Santa Barbara, Calif., to Punta Cana. Left SB at 6 p.m. and arrived the following day in the Domi...
 


 
 

  Hello from Portugal!  

	

by Aidan Bradley
  
Greetings from the sun-baked Algarve! What a difference a country makes. I am happily more interested in what ti...
 


 
 

  Finally . . . The Sun  

	

by Aidan Bradley
  
After 10 days of testing my patience and finding no sun, I have decided to move on to greener pastures. Can't co...
 


 
 

  Checks & Becks  

	

by Aidan Bradley
  
Editor's Note: While our resident pundit-golf photographer was waiting for the sun to come out in Ireland...
 


 
 

  Ramblings from the Road  

	

by Aidan Bradley
  
I am lounging here in Montego Bay in Jamaica, enjoying a refreshing tooty-fruity drink as I glance out over an e...
 


 
 

  48 Hours in the Life of a Golf Course Photographer  

by Aidan Bradley
  
As we were finishing up dinner, I announced to my children that I would be gone for a day or two, as I had a new...
 


 



		
			
				 The Genesis of a Golf Course Photographer  
			
				 The Art of Golf Course Photography  
			
		
	

	 

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits