Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   New York  Ç Long Island 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Long Island Golf News  
			 

  The Other St. George's  

	

by Jay Flemma
  
Never have I been so grateful that a friend has no sense of direction, because his colossal blunder in geography le...
 


 
 

  Woodmere Club Readies for Centennial  

In 2012, the Woodmere Club in Woodmere, N.Y., will celebrate its 100th anniversary. The club on Long Island's south shore has a storied pedigree an...
 


 
 

  Pound Ridge Golf Club - One of New York's Top Destinations  

	

Pound Ridge Golf Club, just north of New York City, is the Empire State's only Pete Dye design. Since its 2008 opening golfers have flocked to the ...
 


 
 

  The Architect's Progress - Jim Urbina at Paramount (Formerly Dellwood) Part 1: Meet the Golf Course  

	

by Jay Flemma
  
The name of this article comes from the title of a series of paintings called "The Rake's Progress" created by famo...
 


 
 

  Course Review: Seawane Country Club in Hewitt Harbor, N.Y.  

	

by Jay Flemma
  
It's tough being a small private country club in this economy, especially in hyper-competitive New York, where ther...
 


 
 

  Superintendent Has Westchester CC Ready for Senior Players Championship  

A rainy spring followed by a very hot and humid July were not exactly what GCSAA Certified Golf Course Superintendent Joe Alonzi was hoping for whe...
 


 
 

  Sleepy Hollow Country Club to Host Metropolitan Golf Open  

Sleepy Hollow Country Club in Scarborough, N.Y., will host the Metropolitan Golf Open Championship on August 23-25. More than 150 top amate...
 


 
 

  Renovations Planned for Metropolis CC in White Plains, N.Y.  

Metropolis Country Club will undergo a renovation project at the completion of the 2011 season that will upgrade a pair of par-4s, the fifth an...
 


 
 

  Shinnecock Hills to Host 2018 U.S. Open  

Shinnecock Hills Golf Club, in Southampton, N.Y., has been selected by the United States Golf Association as the site of the 2018 U.S. Open Champio...
 


 
 

  Historic New York Club to Host 2014 U.S. Women's Amateur  

Nassau Country Club in Glen Cove, N.Y., has been selected by the United States Golf Association to host the 2014 U.S. Women's Amateur C...
 


 


		
			
				 Nick of Time - Late Heroics Propel Gilliam to 101st Travis Championship at Garden City  
			
				 Top Seeds Power into Semis of 101st Travis Invitational  
			
				 Oh You Hans - some Devil! Albertsson Leads Trio of 69s Into Match Play Phase of Travis Invitational  
			
				 Our Green and Gothic Home  
			
				 The 101st Travis Invitational at Garden City - Christmas Comes for Amateurs  
			
				 Don't Say 'Shoulda, Woulda, Coulda' - Go Play Woodmere!  
			
				 Historic Schenectady Muni to Undergo Enhancements  
			
				 Urbina to Restore Tillinghast Classic in New York  
			
				 Tillinghast-Designed Course Gets New Owner  
			
				 Remodel of Wanakah CC Continues  
			
				 Robert Trent Jones' Records Donated to Cornell  
			
				 Follow-Up: 'Fore' Lawsuit in N.Y. Dismissed  
			
				 Fore Heavens Sake  
			
				 Pound Ridge is Dye-abolical & Fun  
			
				 Smith Wins Third U.S. Mid-Amateur Title  
			
				 Giuliani Auctioning Off Round to Benefit 9/11 Fireman  
			
				 Notah Begay III Foundation Course Crew Announces Participants  
			
				 Public Golf North of New York City  
			
				 New Course Opens in Empire State  
			
				 Glimmerglass, Leatherstocking & More  
			
				 'Big Ben' Chimes Midnight for Opponents, Wins 100th Travis Invitational  
			
				 Garden City Member, Best Friends Advance to Semifinals of 100th Travis Invitational  
			
				 Biggest Guy, Bigger Heart: Bel Air's Reneker Takes Medalist Honors to Open 100th Travis Invitational  
			
				 The Travis Invitational Turns 100 Years Young  
			
				 Guiding Eyes for the Blind's 33rd Annual Golf Classic Scheduled  
			
				 Ferry Point Taking Shape      
			
				 New York Golf Economy Report Shows Important Impact  
			
				 From Trash to Trophies: A New Golf Course Grows in the Bronx  
			
				 Metropolitan GCSA Annual Award Recipients  
			
				 Writer Takes on another Batch of Top 100 Courses  
			
				 Another 'Big Break' for Futures Tour Players  
			
				 Shooting Stars: Club Pros Like Kevin Roman Keep PGA Spirit Alive  
			
				 Glass Slipper Fits Like a Glover: Lucas wins 2009 U.S. Open  
			
				 U. S. Open in a New York State of Mind  
			
				 USGA to U.S. Open Fans at Bethpage: Have Fun but Behave  
			
				 The U.S. Open at Bethpage: The Song Remains the Same  
			
				 Lange Outlasts Lulla to Win 99th Travis Invitational  
			
				 Day 2 at the Travis: Hoit Defeats Two Former Champions in Semifinals  
			
				 Birdies, Blissful Skies & Buoyant Hearts Open the 99th Travis Invitational  
			
				 The Travis Invitational: The Grand Old Amateur Returns  
			
				 'Our Green and Gothic Home'  
			
				 Rock/Hip-hop Drummer uses Beats, Music to Lower Handicap  
			
				 Pound Ridge Set to Open July 1  
			
				 Pound Ridge Set to Open July 1  
			
				 Pound Ridge Set to Open July 1  
			
				 Diminutive Kelley Wins Travis Invitational  
			
				 Cold Rain, Warm Spirits as 98th Travis Invitational Begins  
			
				 The Grand Old Man, The Grand Old Club, The Grand Old Amateur  
			
				 The Art of the Bethpage Overnight - Part 1  
			
				 The Art of the Bethpage Overnight - Part 1  
			
				 Saint Andrew's Golf Club in N.Y. to Commemorate 120th Anniversary  
			
				 Long Island to be Promoted as Golf Destination  
			
				 Work Continues on Seneca Hickory Stick Golf Club near Niagara Falls  
			
				 Golden Age U.S. Open Courses Improve with Age  
			
				 Sebonack Golf Club Celebrates Grand Opening   
			
				 Oak Hill to Host Future Senior PGA & PGA Championships   
			
				 Shinnecock Tribe Targets Private Clubs   
			
				 Belfrey International Gets New Owner and Brighter Future  
			
				 Trump Forms New Golf Company  
			
				 Turning Stone?s Kaluhyat Ranked High  
			
				 Leatherstocking & Otesaga Hotel   
			
				 Let There Be Light, Shirley   
			
				 Nicklaus & Doak To Collaborate On New York Course  
			
				 Classic Confrontation Afoot In Upstate New York  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Long Island
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Long Island Golf Courses 
			
 
 Crab Meadow Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Timber Point Golf Course  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



			 
		  Long Island Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits