USA Rallies to Win World Cup - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
	 
	 
	
	 


		  Featured Golf News  
		 USA Rallies to Win World Cup 

		
		  
		 

	
		 
			
			 The American duo of Matt Kuchar and Gary Woodland closed with a 5-under 67 in Sunday's foursomes (alternate-shot) matches to win the Omega Mission Hills World Cup. The biennial, $7.5 million event took place on the Blackstone Course at Mission Hills on Hainan Island, China. 
		
	
		 
			
			 The Yanks posted six birdies and a bogey Sunday to finish at 24-under 264, two shots ahead of England (Ian Poulter and Justin Rose), who had a remarkable 9-under 63, and the German tandem of Martin Kaymer and Alex Cejka (69). 
		
	
		 
			
			 The Irish team of Rory McIlroy and Graeme McDowell enjoyed a two-stroke lead heading into the final round, but had a tough day with four birdies and a like number of bogeys. They finished tied for fourth at 267 with Australia (Richard Green and Brendon Jones - 69), the Netherlands (Robert-Jan Derksen and Joost Luiten - 68) and Scotland (Stephen Gallacher and Martin Laird - 66). 
		
	
		 
			
			 Starting the final round just two shots back of Ireland, South Africa (2011 Masters champion Charl Schwartzel and 2010 British Open winner Louis Oosthuizen) could only muster a 74 and fell down the leaderboard into 12th at 17-under 271.  
		
	
		 
			
			 Defending champion Italy (brothers Francesco and Edoardo Molinari) shot a disappointing 2-over 74 to finish in 17th at 14-under 274. 
		
	
		 
			
			 The victory was the first for the Americans in the World Cup since Tiger Woods and David Duval 11 years ago. "We really clicked. It's fantastic to win for the U.S.," Woodland said.  
		
	
		 
			
			 Kuchar said the critical point in the match came after their bogey on the par-3 11th when they birdied the next two holes and got all pars the rest of the way. "Undoubtedly the shots on the 12 and 13th were key. It was a great moment and to shoot a par when you expected a bogey," Kuchar said. 
		
	
		 
			
			 Kuchar and Woodland return home with a nice payday, splitting the $2.5 million first-place prize, the richest in Asian golf. 
		
	
		 
			
			 For all the scores, visit  http://worldcup.pgatour.com/leaderboard.aspx .  
		
	
		 
			
			  
		
	

		 
		  
		   ('Õ)  
		    
		      
		 
		 
		 

		 
		 
			
  
		 

		 Story Options 
		 
			 
				  
				  Send to a friend  
			 
			 
				    

				  Print this Story  
			 
			 
				    
				  Recommend this story  
			 
		 
		 
		 
		 GolfVite Updates 
				 
				
					
				
					
					  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
					  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
					  bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
					  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
				 


		 
		    
		 
		 Headlines 
			 
					
				  Irish Team Disappointed in Final Round of World Cup  
				
				  Kuchar & Woodland Thrilled with World Cup Win  
				
				  Oldest Surviving Member of PGA Dies  
				
				  Never a Dull Moment at Reynolds Plantation's Golf Courses  
				
				  USA Rallies to Win World Cup  
				
			 

		 
		
		 
		 Related News 
			 
					
				  Talk About Having a Blast on the Golf Course  
				
				  New Pete Dye Course to be Irrigated with Saltwater  
				
				  Exotic Resort Enhanced with New Golf Holes  
				
				  GV Incentives Eases Golf Trips to Great Britain  
				
				  Comin Soon  
				
			 
		 
	
	 
	  


 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits