Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Michigan  Ç Greater Detroit 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Detroit Golf News  
			 

  Michigan PGA Inducts First Class into Hall of Fame  

Former Michigan PGA presidents, players and various golf experts were recently inducted into the new Michigan PGA Hall of Fame. The inductees i...
 


 
 

  Dave Hill Passes  

Dave Hill, a 13-time winner on the PGA Tour, died Tuesday at age 74 at his home in Jackson, Mich. Hill had been suffering from emphysema for severa...
 


 
 

  Lewis Becomes Oldest Winner of U.S. Mid-Amateur   

Earlier this week at the 2011 U.S. Mid-Amateur Championship in Richmond, Texas, 54-year-old Randal Lewis said he was eagerly looking forwar...
 


 
 

  Three Michigan Resorts Up for Sale  

Six 18-hole championship golf courses, the centerpieces of three resort complexes in Michigan - two in Gaylord and one in Manistee - are being ...
 


 
 

  Double the Pleasure at Michiana's Whittaker Woods & Lake Michigan Hills GC  

	

by Steve Habel
  
Michiana, the area encompassing the southwestern corner of Michigan and northwest Indiana, is a paradise for vacat...
 


 
 

  Tom Watson to Conduct Clinic at Harbor Shores August 8  

Eight-time major winner and 2011 Senior PGA champion, Tom Watson, will conduct a golf clinic at the Golf Club at Harbor Shores on Monday...
 


 
 

  Oakland Hills to Host 2016 U.S. Amateur  

The USGA has announced that Oakland Hills Country Club, in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., will be the site of the 2016 U.S. Amateur Champions...
 


 
 

  Golf Club at Harbor Shores Boasts Diverse Terrain, Flouts Urban Setting   

	

by Steve Habel
  
There's very little that is aesthetically pleasing about the area surrounding Jack Nicklaus's daring design at the...
 


 
 

  Otsego Club's Tribute Boasts Grand Routing   

	

by Steve Habel
  
There are plenty of great golf courses in the rolling hills of Michigan's northern Lower Peninsula, but none have ...
 


 
 

  Courses at Treetops Show Rick Smith's Design Prowess  

	

by Steve Habel
  
There's a lot to like about the Treetops Resort, a happy confluence of five golf courses and a top-notch resort ju...
 


 


		
			
				 Two Doak Tracks in Michigan Great Intro to His Work  
			
				 Gaylord CC & Black Bear Highlight Golf in Michigan's Northern Lower Peninsula   
			
				 Favorite Designers - Tom Doak  
			
				 Four Elected To Michigan Golf Hall of Fame  
			
				 Golf Course Architect Sets up Shop in Ann Arbor  
			
				 Michigan Township Buys, Rescues Golf Course  
			
				 LochenHeath Golf Club on Road to Recovery  
			
				 Doak Designs New Greens, Tees at Country Club of Detroit  
			
				 Nicklaus Hosts 'Champions for Change' at the Golf Club at Harbor Shores  
			
				 Revitalized Course Opening in Michigan  
			
				 New Michigan Course Tapped for Two Senior PGA Championships  
			
				 New Michigan Course Tapped for Two Senior PGA Championships  
			
				 Early Opening for Boyne Golf Courses  
			
				 Three Named to Michigan Golf Hall of Fame   
			
				 Work Continues on Golf Club at Harbor Shores   
			
				 Native American Legends Explained at Michigan's Sweetgrass Golf Club  
			
				 USGA Selects Sites for 2010 & 2011 U.S. Junior Amateur   
			
				 Architect Updates Sweetgrass Golf Club  
			
				 Study Reveals Golf Industry Has Major Impact in Michigan  
			
				 Tuesday at the 2008 PGA Championship: The Monster Slumbers  
			
				 The State of Great Golf in Michigan  
			
				 Sweetgrass Opens on Michigan's Upper Peninsula  
			
				 Sweetgrass Golf Club at Island Resort & Casino - Part 4  
			
				 Sweetgrass Golf Club at Island Resort & Casino - Part 4  
			
				 Sweetgrass Golf Club at Island Resort & Casino - Part 4  
			
				 Sweetgrass Golf Club at Island Resort & Casino - Part 4  
			
				 Sweetgrass Golf Club at the Island Resort & Casino - Part 3  
			
				 Sweetgrass Golf Club at the Island Resort & Casino - Part 2  
			
				 Crafting a Golf Course in Michigan's Upper Peninsula - Part 1  
			
				 Construction of New Course on Michigan's Upper Peninsula Nears Completion  
			
				 Detroit's Historic Rogell Golf Course Has New Owner  
			
				 Michigan State University Working on New Turf Types  
			
				 Jones Finishes Restoration of Oakland Hills   
			
				 Acquisition of Otsego Club & Resort Finalized  
			
				 Difficulties for King?s Challenge Course in Michigan  
			
				 Beeches GC Completes First Year   
			
				 Robinson to Design Third Nine at The Chief  
			
				 Mines Golf Course Opens in Grand Rapids   
			
				 Greywalls Open for Play  
			
				 Doak?s Firm Again Offers Internship Program  
			
				 A-Ga-Ming Opens Sundance Course  
			
				 One of Michigan?s Oldest Courses Scoured for War Relics  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Detroit
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Detroit Golf Courses 
			
 
 The Majestic Lake Walden  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Northville Hills Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



			 
		  Greater Detroit Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits