Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   New Jersey  Ç Greater Atlantic City 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Atlantic City Golf News  
			 

  Sorenstam & Faxon Put the 'Pro' in 'Pro Golfer  

	

by Jay Flemma
   
Annika Sorenstam has still got the magic.Hundreds of delighted fans got to see that first-hand when she and the PG...
 


 
 

  Upper Montclair Country Club 110 Years Young  

	

by Jay Flemma
  
For a club that's 110 years old, Upper Montclair in Clifton, N.J., still has the vitality of a 20-something. It's t...
 


 
 

  Northeast Golf Company Completes Renovations of two New Jersey Courses  

During a spring that seemed to drag on forever with inclement weather causing havoc with construction schedules, the Northeast Golf Company has...
 


 
 

  Golf amid the Grapevines at New Jersey's Renault Course  

	

by John Torsiello
  
Ok. Admit it. Have you ever stood on a tee, looked out to the green fairway beyond and tried and figure out a w...
 


 
 

  Points Leader Watney on a Roll Heading into Barclays  

As the top seed heading into the four-tournament FedEx Cup Playoffs, Nick Watney is guaranteed a spot as one of the 30 players eligible for the Tou...
 


 
 

  Plainfield Country Club Ready for The Barclays  

Travis Pauley, the GCSAA Class A golf course superintendent at Plainfield Country Club in Edison, N.J., is hoping to catch a break from Mother Natu...
 


 
 

  Upgrades Continuing at Orchard Hills GC in Paramus  

The renovation of Orchard Hills Golf Course in Paramus, N.J., is under the watchful eye of course architect Robert McNeil, who heads No...
 


 
 

  Catching up with Michelle Wie  

This week Michelle Wie is shifting her focus from her studies at Stanford back to professional golf.  The 21-year-old is in New Jersey for the Shop...
 


 
 

  Seaview to Reopen Following Upgrades  

Seaview - A Dolce Resort, in Galloway, N.J., has completed a $1.4 million capital improvement project. 
 


 
 

  Neshanic Valley to Host 2012 U.S. Women's Amateur Public Links  

Neshanic Valley Golf Course in Neshanic Station, N.J., which is owned and operated by the Somerset County Park Commission, has been sel...
 


 


		
			
				 Winter Golf Pentathlon Returns To Crystal Springs Resort   
			
				 Banks Course at Forsgate Polished to a High Shine  
			
				 More than Appearances at FedEx Cup  
			
				 Atlantic City: Where Gaming & Golf Coexist Nicely  
			
				 A Few Days Not Enough at New Jersey's Golf Mecca   
			
				 An Inside Look at Liberty National   
			
				 RBA Group to Update White Beeches Golf & Country Club in New Jersey  
			
				 USGA Museum's Pynes Putting Course Now Open  
			
				 The Grand Old Man, The Grand Old Club, The Grand Old Amateur  
			
				 Fiddler's Elbow in New Jersey to Unveil Renovated River Course  
			
				 A Look at The Architects Golf Club  
			
				 Springdale Golf Club in Princeton Undergoing Renovations  
			
				 Liberty National ? Women Golfers Will Like It  
			
				 Bay Course at Seaview Resort Gets New Look  
			
				 Morris County Golf Spotlighted in Exhibit  
			
				 Encap Breaks Ground on the ?Miracle in the Meadowlands?  
			
				 Golf Course Planned for New Jersey Gravel Pit  
			
				 New Jersey Continues Its Golf Development Boom  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Atlantic City
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Atlantic City Golf Courses 
			
			 
		  Greater Atlantic City Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits