Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Connecticut  Ç Greater Hartford 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Hartford Golf News  
			 

  Mohegan Sun CC Being Redesigned  

Eleven months after the first dozer turned over dirt at Mohegan Sun Country Club in Baltic, Conn., the redesign overseen by golf course arc...
 


 
 

  New Golf Center Planned at Lyman Orchards Golf Club   

Construction is set to start in April on the Golf Center at Lyman Orchards in Middlefield, Conn. The new facility at Lyman Orchards Golf Club w...
 


 
 

  The University Club a Home for UConn Golfers  

	

by John Torsiello
  
Former University of Connecticut star and National Basketball Association player Donnie Marshall, along with bu...
 


 
 

  Lyman Orchards' Jones Course Reopens   

Lyman Orchards Golf Club in Middlefield, Conn., reopened its Robert Trent Jones, Sr. course on May 23, after six-month, $2-mill...
 


 
 

  Lyman Orchards Undergoing Renovation  

More than $2 million will be spent restoring the Robert Trent Jones, Sr. course at Lyman Orchards Golf Club in Middlefield, Conn. The Jones...
 


 
 

  Rulewich Renovating Two Courses in Connecticut  

Roger Rulewich and his Golf Group are in the process of remodeling two venerable private courses in Connecticut ? Ridgewood Country Club in Danbury...
 


 
 

  Private Course Opens at Lake of Isles   

The members of Lake of  Isles in North Stonington, Conn., were able to take their first swings at the private South (Private) Course on April 19. T...
 


 
 

  New Operator for Lyman Orchards   

Lyman Farms, operated continuously since 1741, and Billy Casper Golf (?BCG?) have announced that BCG has been selected to manage Lyman Orchards? 36...
 


 
 

  Wintonbury Hills Honored   

	

The Town of Bloomfield and Billy Casper Golf (?BCG?) have announced that Wintonbury Hills Golf Course has been named Connecticut?s No. 1 facility b...
 


 
 

  36 Holes Now Open at New England Resort  

In 2005, work finished up on the two championship courses at Lake of Isles Golf Club & Resort in North Stonington, Conn. The Mashantucket Pequot Tr...
 


 


		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Hartford
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Hartford Golf Courses 
			
 
 Tradition at Wallingford  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Tradition at Windsor  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Connecticut Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



			 
		  Greater Hartford Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits