Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

      
	 
	
 

  

	  
  
  


  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 
		 
			  
			  
			 
			  
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
		 
			  
	 
	 
		 
		Search for a golf course, city, state or zip code: Ê Ê
     


 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
 
 

 
 
		 
			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
				 
				  
				 
					 
					 
						  News Home  
						  GolfVites  
						  Mobile  
						  Golf Specials  
					 
					 
					 
						 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Jeff's Journal  
		 
			 
				  
		  On The Lip  
		 
			 
				  
		  Women's Golf  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Photography  
		 
			 
				  
		  International  
		 
			 
				  
		  National  
		
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Brauer's Book  
		 
			 
				  
		  Book Reviews  
		 
			 
				  
		  Industry Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Lessons  
		 
			 
				  
		  Mexico  
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
		  Writer's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Tour Updates  
		 
			 
				  
		  Architect's Corner  
		 
			 
				  
		  Golf Fitness  
		 
			 
				  
		  Australasia  
	 
 


					 
					 
						 Golf Courses 
						Discover how to get your own FREE GolfVite Social Networking site
						 
						
					 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				  
				  
				  
				  

		
			  Home  Ç   Illinois  Ç Greater Chicago 
		
	 
	 
	
	 
		   Greater Chicago Golf News  
			 

  Mistwood Golf Club Undergoes Renovations  

Mistwood Golf Club is undergoing a major renovation. The project involves substantial changes to the Ray Hearn-designed golf course, a new lear...
 


 
 

  'One-Year-to-Go' Media Conference for 2012 Ryder Cup  

	

Various dignitaries got together Monday afternoon at Medinah Golf Club. The famed Illinois club will be the site of the next Ryder Cup, which is sc...
 


 
 

  Jutanugarn Wins U.S. Girls' Junior Amateur Championship  

Ariya Jutanugarn, a 15-year-old from Thailand, beat Dottie Ardina of the Philippines 2 & 1 to win the U.S. Girls' Junior Championship at Olympia Fi...
 


 
 

  Major Revisions to Course in Hoffman Estates Nearly Complete  

The multi-million-dollar capital-enhancements at Poplar Creek Country Club in Hoffman Estates, Ill., are nearly complete, and the venue...
 


 
 

  Former USGA President Taylor Passes  

F. Morgan "Buzz" Taylor Jr., a former president of the United States Golf Association, died of lymphoma October 29 in his Florida home. He ...
 


 
 

  Olympia Fields to Host 2015 U.S. Amateur   

Olympia Fields Country Club has been selected by the United States Golf Association as the site of the 2015 U.S. Amateur Championship, to be pl...
 


 
 

  BMW Championship Preview  

by Tony Dear
  
Two weeks ago, the question being asked by golf writers and other shot-in-the-dark psychologists was what effect Tig...
 


 
 

  Work Continues on New Course near Peoria  

Construction is underway on a new public course in Metamora, a town near Peoria, Ill. Designed by Weibring-Wolfard Golf Design of Dallas, Texas, Me...
 


 
 

  Architect Jacobson Opens First China Course  

Chicago-area golf course architect Rick Jacobson has opened his first 18-hole golf course in China. The Moon Course at Lion Lake Resort located nor...
 


 
 

  Unique Junior Golf Facility Underway in Dundee Township, Ill.   

	

Making golf accessible for non-traditional players is the primary goal of the first-ever Links Across America project, a universally accessible sho...
 


 


		
			
				 New Course Opens in Elgin, Illinois   
			
				 Medinah to Spend $3 Million-plus on Renovations  
			
				 Cog Hill's Dubsdread to Reopen in Mid-May  
			
				 Four Named to Illinois Golf Hall of Fame  
			
				 Seven Chicago-Area Clubs to Join Western Amateur Rota  
			
				 Smyers to Update Butterfield CC   
			
				 Smyers to Update Butterfield CC   
			
				 Jacobson Renovating East Course at Indian Lakes   
			
				 The Fix is in at WGA  
			
				 Golf Creations Breaks Ground on Nicklaus Design in Illinois  
			
				 Golf Creations Directs Renovation at Westmoreland  
			
				 Renovated Oak Park Country Club Reopens  
			
				 Raymond Hearn Restoring Historic Flossmoor Country Club  
			
				 Green Acres Country Club Being Restored  
			
				 A Celestial Ball Mark   
			
				 Deerpath Upgrades a Success  
			
				 Hills/Forrest Starts on First Canadian Design & A Major Renovation of Naperville CC  
			
				 Boulder Ridge Opens Nine More Holes  
			
				 Eaglewood Gets Upgrades  
			
				 Jacobson Completes Course Enhancements At Cantigny   
			
				 Bunker Renovations Energize Classic Courses  
			
				 Planning Key to Remodel of Riverside Golf Club  
			
				 New Private Club Planned for Southwest of Chicago  
			
				 Smyers Restoring Olympia Fields' South Course  
			
				 Works of New Architect Earning Praise   
			
				 Bolingbrook Announces Plans for New Championship Golf Course  
			
				 New Decatur Course Shaping Up Nicely  
			
				 New Village Links Of Glen Ellyn Now Officially Tough  
			
				 Talk About Extreme Makeovers  
			
				 Questions and Answers With Mark Mungeam  
			
		

		  

	 
						 
		
	 
		 
		   
		GolfVite Social Network - Greater Chicago
		
		   
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
		 
			 
				  
	 
	 
		 
		 
			  
Cybergolf's new GolfVite System offers a quick and easy way 
to socialize and play golf with your friends. You can be part of 
a new nationwide golf community with access to golfers locally
 and around the U.S. 
 		   
			 
	 
 


	
			  Recent GolfVite Activity 
		 

			
	
		  Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 04:32PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  updated their profile. (11/28/2011  at 12:47PM)
	
		  AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome! (11/28/2011  at 12:42PM)
	
		  bonnetttc  updated their profile. (11/27/2011  at 10:57AM)
	
		  bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome! (11/27/2011  at 10:56AM)
	
		 


					  Looking for Partners 
	 
  Golfer  Golf Course  Tee Time  Comments  



	
	 
	 
			
				  

			 
	
			Tommy Ryan 
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	  11/29/11 at 04:33PM (0 spots open) 
	 
			
	 
	 
	

 




		  Greater Chicago Golf Courses 
			
 
 Vernon Hills  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Hawthorn Woods Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Fresh Meadow Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Mission Hills Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Eagle Brook Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Ruffled Feathers Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Tamarack Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Bolingbrook Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Mill Creek Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 Palos Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Village Links of Glen Ellyn  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Cog Hill Golf & C.C.  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 



 
 The Royal Country Clubs  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Bull Valley Golf Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Turnberry Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 



 



 
 Silver Lake Country Club  
 
  

	  

 Send GolfVite  

  
 


 Ê  Tee-Times  
 




			 
		  Greater Chicago Golf Map 
       
       


   
	

	  

 
	 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits