South Dakota golf news and courses - Cybergolf 
 
 
 
 
	
        
  
  
  
  
        
        

 


      


  
  
	  

  
   
 
	

 
 
  

  
 
 
	 
		    
		  Ê  
		    
	 
	 
		 
			 
				  Course Guide Home  
				  Golf News  
				  Contact Us  
				  Mobile  
				  Register Your Course  
			 
		 
	 
	
					
 

	 
	 
		 
 
    
   
     

	

	
	 
	 Featured Course 
	   
				 


  Dakota Dunes Country Club  Visit Clubhouse  960 S. Dakota Dunes Blvd. Dakota, SD 57049 
 www.dakotadunescountryclub.com  
 
  
	 
	

     
   
    
 
  
 
	



	 

		   South Dakota Golf News   

		 

  South Dakota's Minnehaha CC Undergoing Renovations  

Minnehaha Country Club, a storied private club in Sioux Falls, S.D., that skirts the Big Sioux River and once such welcomed legendary g...
 


 
 

  Senator Joins Board Of The First Tee Pine Ridge Indian Reservation   

U.S. Senator Tim Johnson has agreed to serve on the board of directors for The First Tee's first Native American Chapter. The First Tee of The Pine...
 


 
 

  Sutton Bay Club Named Best New Private Course of the Year  

Golf Digest has named Sutton Bay Club's golf course, which is carved out of 400 acres of dramatic Missouri Breaks land forms, the Best ...
 


 


		
	 

		 	

		 

		
		
			
		
			
			
				  Sioux City  
			
			
			 
				  Dakota Dunes Country Club  
				  
				  
			 
			
		

		 
	 
 
	 
	
			   Course Updates  
			
		 

		 
			   Web Specials  
			
	  
		
    Clubhouse Updates  
						
					
				
					
						   Tommy Ryan  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   AGAPrez  updated their profile.  
					
						   AGAPrez  signed up.  Welcome!  
					
						   bonnetttc  updated their profile.  
					
						   bonnetttc  signed up.  Welcome!  
					

 
	 
	 
		   Golfers looking for partners  


	
	 
	 
		
		
		 Tommy Ryan 
		 11/29/11 at 04:33PM
	 
	  Sample GolfRev Business 
	0 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 johnslakjs 
		 11/12/11 at 08:06AM
	 
	  Sample Business 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 golferrick22 
		 10/06/11 at 09:04AM
	 
	  findagolfer.com 
	5 left 
	
	 
	

	
	 
	 
		
		
		 jlara 
		 09/26/11 at 11:30AM
	 
	  Clear Creek Golf Course 
	2 left 
	
	 
	

 
 

 


	  
	  Ê
  

 
 
	 
 All rights reserved. The content within Cybergolf.com is copyright-protected by its publisher, Orbit Enterprises, Inc. No part of Cybergolf.com may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retieval system, without written permission from Orbit Enterprises.
Contents copyright ©2010 Orbit Enterprises, Inc. 
 
 Contact Info  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Photo Credits