Heestand Receives $5K LEGT Hole In One Payment 

	 
	 

	

	

	 

	 

	 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
  
  Northeast Ohio Golf  

   

   

   


	 

	

		 

	

			 

		

				 


		

					 Heestand Receives $5K LEGT Hole In One Payment 

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 17, 2011 

   
   

   

   

 

 Parma amateur Matt Heestand received his $5,000 payment directly from the National Hole in One Association last Friday, October 14th, when the management team at NHIOA expedited the process after acknowledging the longer-than-usual delay.  
 Heestand made his hole-in-one at the Lake Erie Golf Tour event at Tam-o-Shanter Golf Course on June 30th. The LEGT had offered a $5,000 hole-in-one prize on its website to any player making an ace at any par-3 hole at any event throughout the 2011 season. But some missing and/or incorrectly completed paperwork by LEGT Director Chris Marino delayed the payment to Heestand for months.  
 Heestand confirmed in person to NEOHgolf.com that he spoke last Tuesday with Brad Henderson, the Advertising Manager for the National Hole-In-One Association, about the status of the prize payment. Henderson had called and asked Heestand to mail a completed W-9 tax form as the final document needed before sending a check to LEGT Director Chris Marino, who in turn was to pay Heestand.  
 Heestand questioned Henderson on how much longer these two steps would add to his receiving payment. Then Heestand asked if there was an electronic way to speed the process and asked that the check be sent to him directly. Henderson stated that changing process as suggested was not company policy, but agreed given the long delay that had already occurred.  
 Heestand sent a completed PDF W-9 by email, and Henderson FedEx-ed a check that was received by Heestand last Friday. 
 “Brad Henderson took the situation seriously when we spoke on the phone and he made all the necessary arrangements to get the check to me,” said Heestand. “I think the website stories might have helped speed the last part of that process a bit, too.” 



 LIKE | TWEET | PLUS| SHARE | EMAIL | PRINT THIS STORY:  


 
  
  
  
  
|
  
|
  

 
  


 

		

				 

		

				



 

	 7 comments 
	
	 

	
			
		 
			 1 
			jim coventry { 10.17.11 at 11:27 am }
		 
		 
			 
				 Great Shot Matt, And A Great Job On Your Part To Get The Money Owed To You. I do remember a comment on the story saying what would you say when Heestand gets paid… Great Shot. And way to take matters into your own hands to get what was owed to you. As for the LEGT. Tour Director Him and Shurmer from the Browns should consider a different Part-Time Gig. 
 
							 
		 
		
				
			
		 
			 2 
			Steve { 10.17.11 at 1:20 pm }
		 
		 
			 
				 So, as stated by Chris Marino, there was a simple paperwork issue. There was no conspiracy for Matt not to be paid. Did it take longer to be paid, yes. Is Chris a bad enough guy to compare to Shurmer? Chris did this on the side to give guys a chance to play for some money. Until any if you want to run a tour, give it a rest. None of those blasting Chris or the LEGT could do any better. So, unless the LEGT directly effects you, give it a rest. 
-Steven Weir 
 
							 
		 
		
				
			
		 
			 3 
			Carl Behrens { 10.17.11 at 7:08 pm }
		 
		 
			 
				 Congratulations Matt. 
 
							 
		 
		
				
			
		 
			 4 
			amadio { 10.18.11 at 6:54 am }
		 
		 
			 
				 LEGT = half-ass run golf tour any way you slice it. 
 
							 
		 
		
				
			
		 
			 5 
			Carl Behrens { 10.18.11 at 8:13 am }
		 
		 
			 
				 I played in all but 3 or 4 of the events. Each event I played in was run professionally and without controversy.  I will admit that hearing  Matt had not been paid by the insurance company  Caused  me concern, but I have dealt with insurance company’s many times and have faced the same frustration that Chris and Matt did.  I cannot speak for the other participants but for me LEGT is far from being run poorly, and I am looking forward to next year. 
 
							 
		 
		
				
			
		 
			 6 
			mrfantastic { 10.18.11 at 1:18 pm }
		 
		 
			 
				 Nice,  a story book ending. 
 
							 
		 
		
				
			
		 
			 7 
			Matt Bova { 10.18.11 at 7:09 pm }
		 
		 
			 
				 And a great job Neohgolf!  I am sure your story helped Matt get paid. In all fairness to insurance companies…following policy and procedure gets you paid.   There’s no way a W-9 holds up funding for this long.  Faxed or emailed copies of a completed and signed W-9 document are 
100% acceptable ALL the time. 
 
							 
		 
		
				
			
	 
		
	

	
		
			
			 You must  log in  to post a comment. 
	
		
  


		

			 

		

			 

	 

 

			 Navigation 

			 

  TOURNAMENT CALENDAR  

  EMAIL NEWSLETTER  

  LOCAL GOLF NEWS FEEDS  

  HOME  |  Archives  |  About Us   

  ADVERTISE  |  Sponsors  

  
    
    
  













			 

		 

  Search This Site 
 
	 
	 
 
 
  Most Commented Posts 
   Thanks for a Great 2011 Tournament Season  (1)   RESULTS: 2011 Pine Hills 3-M Extreme Scramble  (1)   
  NEOH GOLF WEATHER 
 
		 
			 
				Light rain
				46°F
				
			 
		
				 
					Wed
					 
					40/29  
				 
				 
					Thu
					 
					43/29  
				 
				 
					Fri
					 
					38/27  
				 
				
				
		 
		 
		  
		 
  Topic Categories 
		 
	  Golf Chatter 
 
	  Golf Photo Galleries 
 
	  Golf Tournaments 
 
	  Akron District Golf Association 
 
	  Ashland Am-Am 
 
	  Championship Golf Association 
 
	  Cleveland Amateur Championship 
 
	  Cleveland MetroParks Golf 
 
	  Golf Channel Amateur Tour 
 
	  Lake Erie Golf Tour 
 
	  NOPGA 
 
	  Northern Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Stark County Amateur Golf Association 
 
	  Summit County Amateur Championship 
 
 
 
	  Scratch Golf Leagues 
 
	  Chippewa Scratch League 
 
	  Greater Cleveland Skins Game 
 
 
 
	  State & National Associations 
 
	  Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Ohio Public Golf Association 
 
	  USGA 
 
 
 
		 
 
  Support the Website 
			  Your support is appreciated!   
 
 
 
 

 
  Or support the site and promote your business:  ADVERTISE!   
		 

	 

 
	

		 

	

		 
	 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
 			      
		 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
	 
 
		

	 



 

  Subscribe via RSS  



 © Northeast Ohio Golf /  Cleveland Creative Inc.  All rights reserved. | FOLLOW US    |    | 