Advertising  
  About Us  
  Contact Us  
  Golf Shows  
  Golf Specials!  
  Contests  
  Join Our Email Club  
  Event Photos  
    					 
                                             
				 
                
			 
			
			 
				 
					                             
                                  Home  
        							  Golf Trip: Canada 
 
	  Ontario 
 
	  Prince Edward Island 
 
	  Quebec 
 
	  Western Canada 
 
 
 
	  Golf Trip: United States 
 
	  Arizona 
 
	  California 
 
	  Featured 
 
	  Florida 
 
	  Georgia 
 
	  Louisiana 
 
	  Maine 
 
	  Michigan 
 
	  Mississippi 
 
	  New York 
 
	  North Carolina 
 
	  Ohio 
 
	  Oregon 
 
	  Pennsylvania 
 
	  South Carolina 
 
	  Texas 
 
	  Virginia 
 
	  West Virginia 
 
 
 
	  Golf Trip: World 
 
	  Argentina 
 
	  Asia 
 
	  Dubai 
 
	  Europe 
 
	  Italy 
 
	  Mexico 
 
	  Tropical 
 
 
 
	  More Golf 
 
	  Nine and Wine 
	 
	  Rick's Picks 
 
	 
 
	  Other Golf Stories 
 
 
 
	  Stroke Saving Golf TIps 
 
	  by Lisa "Longball" Vlooswyk 
 
	  by Todd Keirstead 
 
 
 
        					 
                            				 
			 
            		 
			 
				 	
                		
						
												
						 
                            							  Mississippi Golf & Blues Experience 2011  
							
			
							 
								  
 There is a time in everyone’s life that they feel a tug in their soul, the hairs on the back of their neck raise and the chills run down their spine.  Anyone who was on the trip will be able to relate and hopefully by the end of this you will be inspired to join us on next year’s Golf & Blues Music Experience in Mississippi.  Read more »  
  
							 
						 
				
										
						 
                            							  PGA Village Port St. Lucie – It can be your Perfect Drive!  
							
			
							 
								  
 Anytime you hear a name like PGA Village it just oozes out that true blue golfer in you.  I know that for me I immediately think Championship or Ryder Cup, and you know in your mind that at some point in your life you have got to get there.  Read more »  
  
							 
						 
				
										
						 
                            							  America’s Value Golf Destination Welcomes You with Open Arms  
							
			
							 
								  
 Things are certainly gearing up in the little Town of Santee that is known to golfers throughout eastern North America as America’s Value Golf Destination.  “We have actually started seeing the return of golfers for just over a month now” said Todd Miller, Santee Coopers Director of Golf.  This town really does gear up for its golfers, nothing new though as golfers in the neighborhood of 150,000 strong converge on Santee for their golf vacations annually.  “We are pretty lucky, we had a great deal of repeat business, we treat our guest’s right, our product is priced right and golfers love it.  That is why they keep coming back.”  Isn’t that the truth!  Where in the world can you find a quality stay and play golf vacation in the $60.00 range during low season and even in high season rarely would top the $85.00 per person per day rate and includes: golf, cart, accommodation, and in most instances breakfast?  You have just found it!!!  Read more »  
  
							 
						 
				
										
						 
                            							  Home Away From Home  
							
			
							 
								  
 Well it’s 20 below and I don’t have a truck and I don’t need one because I have no interest at all in going to a rodeo.  What I do know is that there is going to be a lot of snow coming my way over the next few months and I want to get out of dodge!  Read more »  
  
							 
						 
				
										
						 
                            							  A Manly Weekend at Emerald Greens – The Tampa Area’s Hidden Treasure  
							
			
							 
								  
 Doral, PGA National, Reunion, Champions Gate, TPC…Emerald Greens Golf Resort? How do you put yourself on the map with the big resorts in Florida and compete for the business of traveling golfers from around the world? Well I live and play in the Tampa area, but when my buddies come in from out of town I move into the villas at Emerald greens with them.   Emerald Greens is an awesome property and a place to share a unique experience shared with 3 of my closest friends.  Read more »  
  
							 
						 
				
										
						 
                            							  Swing Batter Batter Swing!  
							
			
							 
								  
 There have been quite a few people that have come for a lesson and say, “If I could just get rid of my baseball swing, then all my problems would be solved!” My initial thought is always, I wish you had a baseball swing, because it would help you play better golf.  Read more »  
  
							 
						 
				
										
						 
                            							  The Boy’s Golf Weekend  
							
			
							 
								  
 MUSKOKA — The boy’s golf weekend. 
 Just thinking of that makes me long for the next Father’s Day weekend when I will pack up my golf clubs, a cooler full of wine, sleeping bag, change of clothes and a whole mess of raw meat destined for the barbecue. That’s when my group of high school buddies gets together for the annual boy’s weekend of golf.  Read more »  
  
							 
						 
				
								 
					 
 
 
 1 
 2 
 3 
 4 
 5 
 6 
 7 
 8 
 9 
 10 
 11 
 12 
 13 
 14 
 15 
 16 
 17 
 18 
 19 
 20 
 21 
 22 
 23 
 24 
 25 
 26 
 27 
 28 
 29 
 30 
 
 

 				 
								 
			 
		
		 
	
	 
    
     
        
            
		 
						  Traveling Golfer Specials!  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   Featured Advertisers  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
    Follow the Traveling Golfer        Tournament Photos  
  
  
  		 
        
        
			 
 
	 
		    	
		 
	  
	 
                         
							                          
						
			 		

		Copyright © TravelingGolfer.net | Managed by Impact Golf Marketing    -  
         Powered by  WordPress  | Designed by:  Virtual Server Hosting  | Thanks to  Premium WordPress Themes  Deals,  Wicked Eugene  and  WordPress Themes Directory