Sponsor Roll 



	 



	 

	 

	

	

	 

	 



	 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 


 

 
 

 

 



 

 

  

   





	 

	

		 

	

			 



				 



				
			

					 Sponsor Roll 	

					 		

 Northeast Ohio Golf recognizes the support of the following individuals and companies. Thank you for your sponsorship! 
 2011 BANNER SPONSORS: 
    Xempt Player Series  – calling professional golfers who don’t have the financial ability to play and stay on a professional tour: the Xempt Player Series could be the answer to your dreams! Men, women and senior players compete against each other on the same course. XPS provides the opportunity for competitors to win over $44,000 in prize money through three stages of competition. In addition to prize money, the top 10 finalists will receive a $50,000 stipend to pay for Q-School fees and to provide the financial capacity to support them on tour. All for a one-time $1,100 investment in 2011! 
    U9 Golf  – U9Golf.com is designed exclusively for you, the single digit handicap golfer. Congratulations on your achievement! U9Golf was created to provide top players with the recognition they deserve. As a  single digit golfer, you have already distinguished yourself as a premier player. Our objective is to provide you with high quality golf apparel that will be the envy of your foursome. Money can buy just about everything in the game of golf: state-of-the-art equipment, exclusive club memberships, travel, lessons, and clothing. But money cannot buy a single-digit handicap or the ability to break 80! U9Golf is designed to recognize player achievement by providing exclusive high-quality apparel. 
   
 [Get listed here! See our  Advertising & Sponsorship options !] 
   
 2011 LINK SPONSORS: 
  College of Golf at Keiser University  – Pursue your passion: begin your Pro Golf career! Experts today predict that the average person will switch careers four to five times throughout his life. Earn your degree in 16 months from the College of Golf at Keiser University and we predict you’ll get it right the first time!  “Students First” is both an attitude and a core belief.  We are here to help you realize your dreams. Welcome to the College of Golf at Keiser University! 
  Cleveland Creative Inc.  -  Helping small and mid-sized businesses make money online! Website development, creative services and online marketing strategies. 
  Standard Legal  – Self-help legal forms software and pro se legal document preparation services. Handle common legal issues on your own; no attorney required! Do it yourself and save a huge amount of money with Standard Legal! 
  Name Brand Apparel  – low factory-direct prices on the best basics and sportswear brands! Clothing styles from Adidas, Champion, Hanes, Fruit of the Loom, Gildan, Yupoong, Outer Banks and many more. Free shipping on orders over $60! 
  Sportswear Nation  – find the best in officially licensed pro sports team gear from the NFL, NBA, MLB and NHL! Team logo hats, t-shirts, sweatshirts, jackets, jerseys and more. 
  College Wear  – official NCAA college sports team gear at great prices! Find cool logo wear for your university team. Great deals for every school! 
  The Custom Logo Factory  –  Cool custom logo apparel and promotional products for businesses and  events. Screen printing, embroidery and other graphics services at truly affordable prices. Get a no-obligation price quote for your project today! 
  Stitch Print Directory  – Find screen printing and embroidery companies in any state in the country! An easy way to get price quotes quickly for any custom apparel project. 
 # # # 


					 

				

				 

				

				



				


			 



			 

	 

 

			 Navigation 

			 

  TOURNAMENT CALENDAR  

  EMAIL NEWSLETTER  

  LOCAL GOLF NEWS FEEDS  

  HOME  |  Archives  |  About Us   

  ADVERTISE  |  Sponsors  

  
    
    
  













			 

		 

  Search This Site 
 
	 
	 
 
 
  Most Commented Posts 
   Thanks for a Great 2011 Tournament Season  (1)   RESULTS: 2011 Pine Hills 3-M Extreme Scramble  (1)   
  NEOH GOLF WEATHER 
 
		 
			 
				Light rain
				46°F
				
			 
		
				 
					Wed
					 
					40/29  
				 
				 
					Thu
					 
					43/29  
				 
				 
					Fri
					 
					38/27  
				 
				
				
		 
		 
		  
		 
  Topic Categories 
		 
	  Golf Chatter 
 
	  Golf Photo Galleries 
 
	  Golf Tournaments 
 
	  Akron District Golf Association 
 
	  Ashland Am-Am 
 
	  Championship Golf Association 
 
	  Cleveland Amateur Championship 
 
	  Cleveland MetroParks Golf 
 
	  Golf Channel Amateur Tour 
 
	  Lake Erie Golf Tour 
 
	  NOPGA 
 
	  Northern Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Stark County Amateur Golf Association 
 
	  Summit County Amateur Championship 
 
 
 
	  Scratch Golf Leagues 
 
	  Chippewa Scratch League 
 
	  Greater Cleveland Skins Game 
 
 
 
	  State & National Associations 
 
	  Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Ohio Public Golf Association 
 
	  USGA 
 
 
 
		 
 
  Support the Website 
			  Your support is appreciated!   
 
 
 
 

 
  Or support the site and promote your business:  ADVERTISE!   
		 

	 

 


		 



	 



 

  Subscribe via RSS  



 © Northeast Ohio Golf /  Cleveland Creative Inc.  All rights reserved. | FOLLOW US    |    | 