Greater Cleveland Skins Game 

	 
	 

	

	

	 

	 

	 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 


 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
  
  Northeast Ohio Golf  

   

   

   
		

	 



		 



			 

	

			
			

								

				 Category — Greater Cleveland Skins Game 

				
			

				 

					
			

					  Dave Sotka Wins 2011 Thompson Cup and Greater Cleveland Skins Game Championship  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  October 13, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 The top four players on the 2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game Leaderboard always play in the final group in the final event of the season at Powderhorn Golf Course in Madison.  
 This year, those four players were (left to right) Dave Sotka, Carl “Unk” Quercioli, Dan Predovic, Mark White.  
 When none of those top-four competitors earned a earned a skin or a pinshot at Powderhorn, Dave Sotka of Chardon walked away with the 2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game Championship, and with it his second Thompson Cup.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game: Week 25 Results  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  October 7, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 The Greater Cleveland Skins Game made its first trip ever to Hawthorne Valley Country Club in Solon on Thursday. 
 On a beautifully warm and sunny evening, one player continued his hot-streak while another padded his season-long lead.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game: Week 24 Results  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  September 29, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 The rain held off just long enough at Chardon Lakes Golf Course on Thursday for the Greater Cleveland Skins Game to squeeze in play for Week 24.  
 The nearly dry session ended with two skins won, a rare double-dip on the pin shots, and no major changes on the 2011 Leaderboard.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game: Week 23 Results  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  September 23, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 It was a beautifully calm and sunny evening along the lakefront, as the Greater Cleveland Skins Game visited Erie Shores Golf Course in Madison on Thursday. 
 Eighteen players came out to see if they could grab a big win and move up the 2011 Leaderboard as the season starts to wind down, but only one player accomplished that goal.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game: Week 21 Results  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  September 9, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 The Greater Cleveland Skins Game made its way to Manikiki Golf Course in Willoughby Hills for the first time ever on Thursday, and Steve Blackburn Jr. found the course to his liking. 
 On yet another rainy Thursday, Blackburn Jr. birdied both the par-four 10th hole and the par-four 17th hole for two skins on the night.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Predovic Nips Blackburn in 2011 Shoot-Out  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  September 5, 2011    No Comments  

					 

  2011 Cleveland Shoot-Out Champion Dan Predovic (l) with runner-up Steve Blackburn Jr.  
 Building further on an already great season in the weekly Greater Cleveland Skins Game, Dan Predovic of Berea captured the 2011 Cleveland Shoot-Out at a cool, wet and windy Fowlers Mill Golf Course in Chesterland on Labor Day Monday.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Cleveland Shoot-Out Moves Tournament Site  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  September 2, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Cleveland Skins Game Director John Niedzialek announced today that the location for Labor Day Monday’s Cleveland Shoot-Out has been changed to Fowlers Mill Golf Course in Chesterland, with tee times starting at 11:50 a.m.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game: Week 20 Results  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  September 2, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 The eagles were flying at Tanglewood National Golf Club in Bainbridge on Thursday! 
 Nineteen players made their way around the hilly Tanglewood front nine in the 20th event of the season, and as a tune up to Monday’s Greater Cleveland Shoot-Out at Fowlers Mill. Two eagles and a great birdie took all the cash.  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game: Week 19 Results  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  August 26, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Just before noon on Thursday, the Greater Cleveland Skins Game was notified that Madison Country Club was closed, as fairways had been turned into ponds when five inches of rain fell early Thursday morning. 
 So the game was moved to Fowlers Mill in Chesterland — you know, the site where the tornado hit on Wednesday evening. Just getting to the golf course proved difficult, as several area roads were closed. 
 But neither tornadoes, wind and rain, nor fallen trees could not stop Mark White from cleaning up on Thursday night at Fowlers!   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Cleveland Skins Moves to Fowlers Tonight  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  August 25, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Last minute change: Madison Country Club has closed for the day because of last night’s weather, so the Greater Cleveland Skins Game moves to Fowlers Mill Golf Course in Chesterland for tonight, with play beginning at 5 p.m. 

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game: Week 18 Results  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  August 18, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 The stakes were doubled on Thursday at Aurora Country Club, and veteran Carl “Unk” Quercioli stole the show! 
 It was Double-Down Night (a doubled $60 entry fee) and Quercioli made the most of it: a birdie skin on the par four 18th hole, and a pin shot to 7 feet on the 17th hole.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game: Week 17 Results  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  August 12, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 The birdies were flying on the back nine of the Devlin Course at Quail Hollow Country Club on Thursday in Week 17 of the Greater Cleveland Skins Game.  
 Many of the holes were tied out with birdies, allowing two players to split the skins pot on the night.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game: Week 16 Results  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  August 5, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 After a week of heavy downpours, wet and soggy were the conditions at Punderson State Park Golf Course in Newbury on Thursday. 
 And because of the soup the birdies were few and far between: only four of the nine holes were birdied by any player on the evening.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game: Week 15 Results  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  July 29, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 The first ever trip by the Greater Cleveland Skins Game to Sugarbush Golf Club was a soupy one. 
 The skies opened up once again just prior to the start of the event, with a deluge that flooded the greens and fairways. 
 But eleven players waited out the storm, and that patience paid off for three.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game: Week 14 Results  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  July 21, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 “Hot and breezy” best describes the conditions at Powderhorn Golf Course in Madison at the Greater Cleveland Skins Game on Thursday night. 
 And “hot and breezy” can also describe the way Mike Angie played on Thursday as well. 
 Angie opened his round with a birdie on the long par four 10th hole to and take the first skin of the night. 
 Angie then took home the pin shot on the 14th hole, worth $51. 
 Finally, Angie added another birdie skin on the par-5 16th hole. Hot and breezy…  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Chippewa Scratch League: Week 8 Results  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  July 19, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 The Executive Directors of the Akron District Golf Association and the Chippewa Scratch League paired up to put a beating on the field at the Chippewa Scratch League on Monday. 
 Oh yeah, and two guys won a thousand dollar skin on Monday, too.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

				 

			

				
 
	  ? Previous Entries  
 


			

			
			

			 



			 

	 

 

			 Navigation 

			 

  TOURNAMENT CALENDAR  

  EMAIL NEWSLETTER  

  LOCAL GOLF NEWS FEEDS  

  HOME  |  Archives  |  About Us   

  ADVERTISE  |  Sponsors  

  
    
    
  













			 

		 

  Search This Site 
 
	 
	 
 
 
  Most Commented Posts 
   Thanks for a Great 2011 Tournament Season  (1)   RESULTS: 2011 Pine Hills 3-M Extreme Scramble  (1)   
  NEOH GOLF WEATHER 
 
		 
			 
				Light rain
				46°F
				
			 
		
				 
					Wed
					 
					40/29  
				 
				 
					Thu
					 
					43/29  
				 
				 
					Fri
					 
					38/27  
				 
				
				
		 
		 
		  
		 
  Topic Categories 
		 
	  Golf Chatter 
 
	  Golf Photo Galleries 
 
	  Golf Tournaments 
 
	  Akron District Golf Association 
 
	  Ashland Am-Am 
 
	  Championship Golf Association 
 
	  Cleveland Amateur Championship 
 
	  Cleveland MetroParks Golf 
 
	  Golf Channel Amateur Tour 
 
	  Lake Erie Golf Tour 
 
	  NOPGA 
 
	  Northern Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Stark County Amateur Golf Association 
 
	  Summit County Amateur Championship 
 
 
 
	  Scratch Golf Leagues 
 
	  Chippewa Scratch League 
 
	  Greater Cleveland Skins Game 
 
 
 
	  State & National Associations 
 
	  Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Ohio Public Golf Association 
 
	  USGA 
 
 
 
		 
 
  Support the Website 
			  Your support is appreciated!   
 
 
 
 

 
  Or support the site and promote your business:  ADVERTISE!   
		 

	 

 
		

		 

	

		 
	 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
 			      
		 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
	 
 
		

	 

		

 

  Subscribe via RSS  



 © Northeast Ohio Golf /  Cleveland Creative Inc.  All rights reserved. | FOLLOW US    |    | 