Championship Golf Association 

	 
	 

	

	

	 

	 

	 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 


 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
  
  Northeast Ohio Golf  

   

   

   
		

	 



		 



			 

	

			
			

								

				 Category — Championship Golf Association 

				
			

				 

					
			

					  FINAL RESULTS: 2011 CGA at Bunker Hill  

					 by Jeff Jenkins  |  July 2, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Brian Smith of Amherst posted a 3-under par 69 to beat a field of nine players in the Championship Golf Association event played at Bunker Hill Saturday.  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  RESULTS: 2011 Championship Golf – Windmill  

					 by Jeff Jenkins  |  June 18, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 A field of 10 players competed in the Championship Golf Association individual stroke play event at Windmill Lakes Golf Course in Ravenna on Saturday, and just under a third of the field tied for first place.  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  CGA Cancels Saturday’s Tanglewood Event  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  May 26, 2011    2 Comments  

					 

 Championship Golf Association Director Jeff Jenkins announced at noon today that this Saturday’s stroke play tournament at Tanglewood National Golf Club in Chagrin Falls has been canceled, as only 12 players registered even after an extension of the entry deadline.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  CGA Cancels Legends of Massillon Event  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  May 10, 2011    1 Comment  

					 

 Jeff Jenkins has canceled this coming Sunday’s (May 15th) Championship Golf Association event at the Legends of Massillon GC due to a lack of player registrations. The next event on the CGA schedule is Saturday, May 28th at Tanglewood National in Bainbridge. To enter, visit the  CGA website . 

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Thomas Best Survives CGA Pine Hills  

					 by Jeff Jenkins  |  May 2, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Mark Thomas of Canton survived windy and wet conditions — but good greens and no rain! — to win Sunday’s Championship Golf Association event at Pine Hills Golf Course in Hinckley.  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  CGA to Streamline in 2011  

					 by Jeff Jenkins  |  March 7, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Streamline is the word for 2011! The Championship Golf Association is reducing its tournament schedule in 2011 in order to eliminate many of the conflicts with other tournament dates.  With tournaments scheduled no closer than every two weeks, the CGA expects to improve participation and competition.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  FINAL RESULTS: 2010 CGA Red Tail Stroke Play  

					 by Jeff Jenkins  |  August 29, 2010    1 Comment  

					 

 Final results from the Championship Golf Association individual stroke play tournament held at Red Tail Golf Club in Avon, Ohio on Sunday, August 29th:   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Brick Takes CGA Event at Sweetbriar  

					 by Jeff Jenkins  |  July 19, 2010    No Comments  

					 

 Five players stood at or near par with a shot at victory on the final hole of the Championship Golf Association stroke play tournament at The Legacy at Sweetbriar on Sunday. But Norton Brick was the only player of the five to make a four on the 18th to earn the win.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  CGA Cancels Quail Hollow Event  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  July 8, 2010    No Comments  

					 

 Even though there was no competing event scheduled, the Championship Golf Association has canceled its stroke play tournament at Quail Hollow this Sunday, July 11th due to a lack of entries.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Foss Wins CGA Event at Legends  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  July 4, 2010    No Comments  

					 

 Mark Foss made it clear that he wanted to win a CGA event to gain an exemption into the 2010 Cleveland Amateur. Now he has his 2010 victory, but he must push on to see if he finishes in the top five on the CGA money list on July 15th, the only  exemption  available to the CGA.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Mintz & Hanley Tie CGA Event at Windmill  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  June 27, 2010    No Comments  

					 

 Bob Hanley and Michael Mintz tied for first place in the Championship Golf Association’s individual stroke play event at Windmill Lakes Golf Course in Ravenna on Sunday.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Coe Wins CGA Punderson Stroke Play  

					 by Jeff Jenkins  |  June 19, 2010    No Comments  

					 

 Scott Coe made six birdies en route to a 2-under par score of 70 to win the Championship Golf Association’s stroke play event at Punderson State Park Golf Course on Saturday by a whopping six shots.  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Controversy as CGA Shortens Ironwood to 9 Holes  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  June 5, 2010    No Comments  

					 

 Play was stopped after a significant rainstorm hit the Championship Golf Association’s stroke play event at Ironwood Golf Course on Saturday. After a brief time in the clubhouse, CGA Director Jeff Jenkins called the remainder of the day a washout and decided the event would revert to the nine holes that all players had completed as final. 
 That decision didn’t sit well with some of the players who were making a charge on the back nine.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Brick Cruises in CGA Stableford at Tanglewood  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  May 30, 2010    No Comments  

					 

 Final results from The Championship Golf Association’s Modified Stableford event, played Sunday, May 30, 2010 at Tanglewood National Golf Club in Bainbridge. Points: 1 for par; 3 for birdie; 5 for eagle:  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  CGA Cancels Saturday’s Eagle Creek Event  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  May 21, 2010    No Comments  

					 

 Due to a low number of registrations, Jeff Jenkins has canceled the Championship Golf Association tournament that was to be played this Saturday, May 22 at Eagle Creek Golf Club in Norwalk.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Oslie Wins 2010 CGA Pine Hills Event  

					 by Jeff Jenkins  |  May 16, 2010    No Comments  

					 

 Kory Oslie posted a 1-over par 73 to win the Championship Golf Association stroke play event at Pine Hills on Sunday by a single shot over Mark Borlin. Scott Heran finished third with a 75.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

				 

			

				
 
	  ? Previous Entries  
 


			

			
			

			 



			 

	 

 

			 Navigation 

			 

  TOURNAMENT CALENDAR  

  EMAIL NEWSLETTER  

  LOCAL GOLF NEWS FEEDS  

  HOME  |  Archives  |  About Us   

  ADVERTISE  |  Sponsors  

  
    
    
  













			 

		 

  Search This Site 
 
	 
	 
 
 
  Most Commented Posts 
   Thanks for a Great 2011 Tournament Season  (1)   RESULTS: 2011 Pine Hills 3-M Extreme Scramble  (1)   
  NEOH GOLF WEATHER 
 
		 
			 
				Light rain
				46°F
				
			 
		
				 
					Wed
					 
					40/29  
				 
				 
					Thu
					 
					43/29  
				 
				 
					Fri
					 
					38/27  
				 
				
				
		 
		 
		  
		 
  Topic Categories 
		 
	  Golf Chatter 
 
	  Golf Photo Galleries 
 
	  Golf Tournaments 
 
	  Akron District Golf Association 
 
	  Ashland Am-Am 
 
	  Championship Golf Association 
 
	  Cleveland Amateur Championship 
 
	  Cleveland MetroParks Golf 
 
	  Golf Channel Amateur Tour 
 
	  Lake Erie Golf Tour 
 
	  NOPGA 
 
	  Northern Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Stark County Amateur Golf Association 
 
	  Summit County Amateur Championship 
 
 
 
	  Scratch Golf Leagues 
 
	  Chippewa Scratch League 
 
	  Greater Cleveland Skins Game 
 
 
 
	  State & National Associations 
 
	  Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Ohio Public Golf Association 
 
	  USGA 
 
 
 
		 
 
  Support the Website 
			  Your support is appreciated!   
 
 
 
 

 
  Or support the site and promote your business:  ADVERTISE!   
		 

	 

 
		

		 

	

		 
	 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
 			      
		 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
	 
 
		

	 

		

 

  Subscribe via RSS  



 © Northeast Ohio Golf /  Cleveland Creative Inc.  All rights reserved. | FOLLOW US    |    | 