Save a Few Bucks While Getting Tournament-Ready 

	 
	 

	

	

	 

	 

	 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
  
  Northeast Ohio Golf  

   

   

   


	 

	

		 

	

			 

		

				 


		

					 Save a Few Bucks While Getting Tournament-Ready 

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 28, 2011 

   
   

   

   

 

 Northeast Ohio Golf loves passing on tips that can save tournament players some money. So here’s one we’ve heard a couple of times now from a couple of different players: if you’re looking to book a practice round tee time at a specific golf course in advance of a tournament date, spending five minutes online can save you some cash.  
 If you haven’t played some particular area golf course and a tournament is coming up at that site (or if you haven’t played at all in a week or so and just need to get a few swings in), then getting in a practice round at that course before event day can help get you mentally and physically ready. But why overpay for a practice round? 
 Several different players have confirmed that the rates offered online in the GolfNow  Ohio golf course directory  can be significantly less expensive for an immediate booking vs. the price you get walking up to the counter and paying! 
 The way GolfNow works with each golf course owner means that certain tee times can have some pretty hefty discounts attached to them. So it’s worth a look online before you get in the car to go play, or before you pick up the phone to book a time. 
 (Going online also means you don’t have to wait on hold to find out what tee times might be available; the open times and their prices are listed right there. And the guy on the phone is never going to tell you, “Oh, by the way, if you book a time 20 minutes later than this one, you’ll pay less.”) 
 GolfNow doesn’t have every Northeast Ohio golf course on its roster yet, but it has quite a few. Even the courses that don’t have the online booking option still have informational listings in the directory about their facilities, amenities, course specs, contact info, even a direct link to each course’s website. 
 As long as you have a little bit of flexibility as to time and date, you can save $10, $20, $30, sometimes even $40 bucks off a round of golf in advance of a tournament date. That’s worth five minutes online to check it out. 
 Nabbing a practice round every once in a while doesn’t mean you’re prepping to play  The Masters . But there’s no reason to sign up for a tournament and then play the course blind, either — especially if you can get that practice round at a big, fat, giant discount. 



 LIKE | TWEET | PLUS| SHARE | EMAIL | PRINT THIS STORY:  


 
  
  
  
  
|
  
|
  

 
  


 

		

				 

		

				



 

	 0 comments 
	
	 

	
		 
		
		 There are no comments yet... 
		 
			 
				 Kick things off by filling out the form below. 
			 
		 

		
	 

	

	
		
			
			 You must  log in  to post a comment. 
	
		
  


		

			 

		

			 

	 

 

			 Navigation 

			 

  TOURNAMENT CALENDAR  

  EMAIL NEWSLETTER  

  LOCAL GOLF NEWS FEEDS  

  HOME  |  Archives  |  About Us   

  ADVERTISE  |  Sponsors  

  
    
    
  













			 

		 

  Search This Site 
 
	 
	 
 
 
  Most Commented Posts 
   Thanks for a Great 2011 Tournament Season  (1)   RESULTS: 2011 Pine Hills 3-M Extreme Scramble  (1)   
  NEOH GOLF WEATHER 
 
		 
			 
				Light rain
				46°F
				
			 
		
				 
					Wed
					 
					40/29  
				 
				 
					Thu
					 
					43/29  
				 
				 
					Fri
					 
					38/27  
				 
				
				
		 
		 
		  
		 
  Topic Categories 
		 
	  Golf Chatter 
 
	  Golf Photo Galleries 
 
	  Golf Tournaments 
 
	  Akron District Golf Association 
 
	  Ashland Am-Am 
 
	  Championship Golf Association 
 
	  Cleveland Amateur Championship 
 
	  Cleveland MetroParks Golf 
 
	  Golf Channel Amateur Tour 
 
	  Lake Erie Golf Tour 
 
	  NOPGA 
 
	  Northern Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Stark County Amateur Golf Association 
 
	  Summit County Amateur Championship 
 
 
 
	  Scratch Golf Leagues 
 
	  Chippewa Scratch League 
 
	  Greater Cleveland Skins Game 
 
 
 
	  State & National Associations 
 
	  Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Ohio Public Golf Association 
 
	  USGA 
 
 
 
		 
 
  Support the Website 
			  Your support is appreciated!   
 
 
 
 

 
  Or support the site and promote your business:  ADVERTISE!   
		 

	 

 
	

		 

	

		 
	 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
 			      
		 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
	 
 
		

	 



 

  Subscribe via RSS  



 © Northeast Ohio Golf /  Cleveland Creative Inc.  All rights reserved. | FOLLOW US    |    | 