Chippewa Scratch League 

	 
	 

	

	

	 

	 

	 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 


 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
  
  Northeast Ohio Golf  

   

   

   
		

	 



		 



			 

	

			
			

								

				 Category — Chippewa Scratch League 

				
			

				 

					
			

					  Weaver Helps Kabasky Overtake Cea in Final Event of 2011 Chippewa Scratch League Season  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 11, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Someone near the top of the standings needed to put together a really big final night to overtake the lead Jim Cea had built up for the season in the 2011 Chippewa Scratch League. 
 Let’s see: a team victory and three skins from a carry-over pot at Rosemont; yup, that qualifies as a really big final night…   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Chippewa Scratch Canceled for 3rd Straight Week  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 3, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 The plans were laid for a great night of golf, a carry-over skins pot, and the season’s final steak night. But Mother Nature raised the one finger salute instead.  
 The Chippewa Scratch League has been CANCELED once again for tonight, Monday, October 3rd due to wet conditions. Hopefully next week…  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Chippewa Scratch League Washed Out Again  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  September 27, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 For the second week in a row, Monday’s playing of the Chippewa Scratch League was a washout before it started. Heavy rains hit the Doylestown golf course at 3 p.m. making conditions unplayable. So the previous carry-over skins pot (now going on three weeks old!) will be in play again next Monday — Mother Nature permitting, of course… 

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Chippewa Scratch League Canceled  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  September 19, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Because of the poor weather, the Chippewa Scratch League has been canceled for tonight, Monday, September 19th.  
 League play will resume again next week Monday — with a big CARRY-OVER SKINS POT in play! 

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Chippewa Scratch League: Week 15 Results  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  September 13, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Mike Kracker and Dr. Jeff Mallette posted a solid 6-under par 30 in the scramble format on the back nine at Chippewa on Monday to jump up to seventh and eleventh respectively on the  2011 Monday Night League Standings .  
 And since no skins were won on the evening, the skins money carries over to next week — making for an interesting September finish to the 2011 race.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Chippewa Scratch League: Week 14 Results  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  August 30, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Thanks to some great play, some solid help from partner Dave Pulk, and perhaps some senior tee locations that were a bit more generous at Rosemont than they should have been (controversy!), Jim Cea takes the first big lead in the 2011 Chippewa League Standings. 
 But the red-hot duo of Mike Simpson and Jim Krivanek are right on Cea’s heels.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Chippewa Scratch League: Week 13 Results  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  August 23, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Except for a few slight changes, the hole locations were left in the ‘Championship’ locations for Monday’s back-nine scramble in the Chippewa Scratch League. 
 Sure, a couple of them were eased slightly and the tees at 18 were moved up to their normal tee box, but the greens were still very firm and fast, and much of the setup still had putts falling away to nowhere. 
 But that didn’t stop the Mike Simpson / Jim Krivanek train.  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Chippewa Scratch League: Week 12 Results  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  August 16, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Just off the front of the first green with a solid tee shot, Chris Okeson had a short little chip from the left grass bunker. He hit it just a tiny bit skinny and it took off hot. No worries: the ball hit the middle of the flagstick, scooted up in the air, dropped down by the edge of the hole, then fell in for eagle-2. And with that bit of good fortune, Okeson and partner Rob Schustrich were off to the races.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Chippewa Scratch League Is A Go  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  August 15, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 It rained a bundle last night and this morning, but Chippewa Golf Course is letting carts out and tonight’s Monday Scratch League is to be played as scheduled… 

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Chippewa Scratch League: Week 11 Results  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  August 9, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Jim Cea put his name at the top of the 2011 Chippewa Scratch League Standings this week. 
 Partnering with Ron Bell on Monday, the pair posted a 4-under par score of 32 on the back nine in the better ball format to nip Tom Markham and Dave Trier by a single shot.  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Chippewa Scratch League: Week 10 Results  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  August 2, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Dave Oates holed out his second shot on the par-4 ninth hole to push him and teammate Sam Spino to 6-under par 29 in the Chippewa Scratch League’s front nine scramble on Monday.  
 And it still wasn’t good enough for the outright win.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Chippewa Scratch League: Week 9 Results  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  July 26, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 In the always challenging aggregate team score format (combined scores from both players), Rick Bryson and partner Ryan Maxwell put together a solid 3-under par score of 69 on the back nine at Chippewa to nip Jim Cea and Dave Pulk by a single shot. 
  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Chippewa Scratch League Canceled for July 11th  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  July 11, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Some nasty lightning bolts and a heavy rain storm washed out the Chippewa Scratch League today, Monday, July 11th. Watch Northeast Ohio Golf for details on next week’s location (Chippy vs. Rosemont) and format. Sidenote: the gift certificate portion of the  2011 League Standings  has been added, bringing those totals up-to-date… 

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Chippewa Scratch League: Week 7 Results  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  June 28, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Rick Bryson and Ryan Maxwell edged out a pack of five teams on Monday at the Chippewa Scratch League, posting a strong 6-under par 29 in the scramble format on the front nine to earn their first win of the 2011 season. 
 Five teams made it to 5-under par to earn a tie for second place, including the team of Mike Armour and Jason Chadima who scored victory last week.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Chippewa Scratch League: Week 6 Results  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  June 20, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Mike Armour and Jason Chadima were the big winners in the Scratch League on Monday at Chippewa. The pair grabbed a tie for first place in the combined aggregate score format on the front nine, and also took home the one and only skin on the evening.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Chippewa Scratch League: Week 5 Results  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  June 14, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Rob Schustrich rolled in three bombs of at least 25 feet each as he and partner Chris Okeson posted a strong 5-under par better ball score of 30 on the front nine at Chippewa Monday. 
 Their combined solid play was good for a one shot victory over two teams.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

				 

			

				
 
	  ? Previous Entries  
 


			

			
			

			 



			 

	 

 

			 Navigation 

			 

  TOURNAMENT CALENDAR  

  EMAIL NEWSLETTER  

  LOCAL GOLF NEWS FEEDS  

  HOME  |  Archives  |  About Us   

  ADVERTISE  |  Sponsors  

  
    
    
  













			 

		 

  Search This Site 
 
	 
	 
 
 
  Most Commented Posts 
   Thanks for a Great 2011 Tournament Season  (1)   RESULTS: 2011 Pine Hills 3-M Extreme Scramble  (1)   
  NEOH GOLF WEATHER 
 
		 
			 
				Light rain
				46°F
				
			 
		
				 
					Wed
					 
					40/29  
				 
				 
					Thu
					 
					43/29  
				 
				 
					Fri
					 
					38/27  
				 
				
				
		 
		 
		  
		 
  Topic Categories 
		 
	  Golf Chatter 
 
	  Golf Photo Galleries 
 
	  Golf Tournaments 
 
	  Akron District Golf Association 
 
	  Ashland Am-Am 
 
	  Championship Golf Association 
 
	  Cleveland Amateur Championship 
 
	  Cleveland MetroParks Golf 
 
	  Golf Channel Amateur Tour 
 
	  Lake Erie Golf Tour 
 
	  NOPGA 
 
	  Northern Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Stark County Amateur Golf Association 
 
	  Summit County Amateur Championship 
 
 
 
	  Scratch Golf Leagues 
 
	  Chippewa Scratch League 
 
	  Greater Cleveland Skins Game 
 
 
 
	  State & National Associations 
 
	  Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Ohio Public Golf Association 
 
	  USGA 
 
 
 
		 
 
  Support the Website 
			  Your support is appreciated!   
 
 
 
 

 
  Or support the site and promote your business:  ADVERTISE!   
		 

	 

 
		

		 

	

		 
	 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
 			      
		 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
	 
 
		

	 

		

 

  Subscribe via RSS  



 © Northeast Ohio Golf /  Cleveland Creative Inc.  All rights reserved. | FOLLOW US    |    | 