Advertise on Northeast Ohio Golf 



	 



	 

	 

	

	

	 

	 



	 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 

 

 



 

 

  

   





	 

	

		 

	

			 



				 



				
			

					 Advertise on Northeast Ohio Golf 	

					 		

 Advertise your company in 2012 and help NEOHgolf.com promote tournament golf in Northeast Ohio!  
 Ads purchased after Nov. 1, 2011 will run through the end of 2012. The rates listed below are a great value for the number of ad views provided: from Jan 1 – Nov 15, 2011, NEOHgolf.com had 86,836 Visits and 277,558 Pageviews! 
 It’s first-come, first-serve, so pick your ad category today from the list below: 
 $25 LINK SPONSOR: Get a text link on our  Sponsor Page  for the year! Sponsor links feature the name of you or your business and a brief description of your ideas, products or services. An inexpensive way to show your support of Northeast Ohio Golf — while building back links and page rank for your website in the search engines! 
 $100 BANNER SPONSOR: Get a monthly graphic 500?65 (or 468?60) ad banner with text link posted within one of the stories on the NEOHgolf.com site, plus a link on our Sponsor Page as detailed above! An inexpensive way to get a fresh link back to your website every month, and some graphic display advertising exposure for your business or products. Banner ads will appear within one posted story every month, typically viewed after clicking the “Read More” link. (Note that Banner Sponsor ads will NOT be seen on the home page). 
 $350 ADVERTORIAL PACKAGE: Have a specific story about a product, event or destination that you’d like to share with the readers of Northeast Ohio Golf? Then create an “advertorial”! The advertiser supplies a written story of up to 500 words, plus any images/logos/photos/video they want Northeast Ohio golfers to see. The advertiser determines the date the story is to run, and we post it into the content stream on the requested date. (Note that the information has to be for a legitimate product or service and be relevant to our readers for the ads to be accepted; NEOHgolf.com reserves the right to review everything, revise the content as we see fit, and refuse any ad that just doesn’t feel right.) The first few paragraphs of the story will appear on the homepage, with a “Read More >” link to the remainder of the story on a permanent page that will remain live in the archives. The listed author of the story will be the company or a named representative of the company, to make it clear to our readers that the story is indeed an advertorial. To follow up the one-time advertorial posting, this package also includes a monthly “Banner Sponsor” image ad with link for the balance of the year, to ensure multiple links are posted back to the advertiser’s website. 
 $500 CATEGORY SPONSOR: Be the Banner Sponsor for ALL of the stories within a specific news category (i.e. postings covering all ADGA events, all Cleveland Skins Game events, etc.)! Your company’s graphic 500?65 banner ad with text link will appear for the entire year at the top of every story posted within the editorial category you select (top position means those ads will be seen on the home page). Category postings are typically weekly, and category choices are first-come, first-serve. A great way to have your ads and text links appear frequently on NEOHgolf.com! 
 $1,000 SITE SPONSOR: The Northeast Ohio Golf website has four year-long Site Sponsor slots available.  A Site Sponsor receives significant exposure and back links: a text link and a 160?160 graphic ad on EVERY PAGE OF THE SITE (graphic ad shown in the top right column, text link in the footer); a 160?160 graphic ad and separate text link on both the Tournament Calendar and the Newsletter Registration pages; weekly mention and link within the Northeast Ohio Golf email; and of course a complete description of your business at the top of the Sponsor Page for the entire year. 
 $5,000 PRESENTING SPONSOR: The Presenting Sponsor gets all four Site Sponsor ad positions on the home page (outlined above), plus gets three significant additional branding impacts! Brand Impact #1: your company name and logo will be worked into the website header as presenting sponsor; Brand Impact #2: your company will be recognized as the Presenting Sponsor in every weekly email sent out to over 1,200 local players who are registered to receive the tournament newsletter; Brand Impact #3: your company name and logo will be listed as Presenting Sponsor on a series of posters and stickers that will be distributed to every public golf course in Northeast Ohio promoting the website! (IMPORTANT: the Presenting Sponsor option is only available if all four Site Sponsor slots are not yet claimed — so if you are interested, commit quickly!). 
 Of course, if you decide to participate in any of the sponsorship programs that include graphic ads, we will work with you to develop the necessary creative for use on the website. 
 There are other options and opportunities, too. If you have a sponsorship idea or a different dollar amount in mind, please  email your ideas to me  and we’ll put a package together that gives you great value. 
 If you are ready to participate, simply click the DONATE button in the left column to make a payment by credit card or Paypal for the amount of the package you want. (Or you can mail a check, too.) Either way, thank you for supporting the Northeast Ohio Golf website! 
 – Allen Freeman  


					 

				

				 

				

				



				


			 



			 

	 

 

			 Navigation 

			 

  TOURNAMENT CALENDAR  

  EMAIL NEWSLETTER  

  LOCAL GOLF NEWS FEEDS  

  HOME  |  Archives  |  About Us   

  ADVERTISE  |  Sponsors  

  
    
    
  













			 

		 

  Search This Site 
 
	 
	 
 
 
  Most Commented Posts 
   Thanks for a Great 2011 Tournament Season  (1)   RESULTS: 2011 Pine Hills 3-M Extreme Scramble  (1)   
  NEOH GOLF WEATHER 
 
		 
			 
				Light rain
				46°F
				
			 
		
				 
					Wed
					 
					40/29  
				 
				 
					Thu
					 
					43/29  
				 
				 
					Fri
					 
					38/27  
				 
				
				
		 
		 
		  
		 
  Topic Categories 
		 
	  Golf Chatter 
 
	  Golf Photo Galleries 
 
	  Golf Tournaments 
 
	  Akron District Golf Association 
 
	  Ashland Am-Am 
 
	  Championship Golf Association 
 
	  Cleveland Amateur Championship 
 
	  Cleveland MetroParks Golf 
 
	  Golf Channel Amateur Tour 
 
	  Lake Erie Golf Tour 
 
	  NOPGA 
 
	  Northern Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Stark County Amateur Golf Association 
 
	  Summit County Amateur Championship 
 
 
 
	  Scratch Golf Leagues 
 
	  Chippewa Scratch League 
 
	  Greater Cleveland Skins Game 
 
 
 
	  State & National Associations 
 
	  Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Ohio Public Golf Association 
 
	  USGA 
 
 
 
		 
 
  Support the Website 
			  Your support is appreciated!   
 
 
 
 

 
  Or support the site and promote your business:  ADVERTISE!   
		 

	 

 


		 



	 



 

  Subscribe via RSS  



 © Northeast Ohio Golf /  Cleveland Creative Inc.  All rights reserved. | FOLLOW US    |    | 