BadGolfer.com: For the golfer who REALLY sucks! 
 
 



	  

	 
	 







  

  

  

  

		  

  

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 








 

 
 
		 
			 
				  The Golf Channel 
				 Amateur Tour  | 
				 Tee Times  |  Travel   |  TV Schedule  |  Mobile 
				 
			 
			 
		 
  
    	 
    		 
	        	 
	        		 
						 
							 
									 
							 


 
 
 

							 
								 
							 
						 
        		      
        		  	
	        	 

	        	 
    		   		  Bad Golfer   
        			 
		  
					  
        		  
        	  
         
        
         
        	 

					 Home   
					|  Feature Stories  
				    |  Nominate a hacker! 
					|  Golf Jokes  
					|  Hot Beer Cart Girls  
					|  Funny Golf Videos  
					|  Vacation Quote 

			  
			 
 
									 
 
 
 

							 
								 
						 			
			 
          
    	
         
        	 
        	
        	 
        		 
					  




	 
		 


  
 
   
	
From BadGolfer.com with love: Ranking the top golf courses for (regular) guys who love golf  
 
We all love golf course rankings, but there's quite a bias involved, huh? Host a major championship and you're basically guaranteed a spot on the list. What about the average duffer who's more impressed with the beer list than the slope/rating - or prefers friendliness over the fine, imported lotion in the locker room? Where's our list, hackers? Answer: Right here.   ... full article È 
 

 
 
  


			   
		  
	  

	 
		 
				
   Currently, the United States owns both the Ryder and Solheim Cups. We believe the U.S. should now cancel both competitions, keep the cups and tell Europe to bite it. But we're slightly xenophobic that way. Nonetheless, America's brave women deserve respect for handling the pressure and holding serve in Illinois. Because not only did they achieve national glory,  they finally managed to get Michelle Wie a win .
 

			

        		
			   
		  
	  

                 
               	   
						 
							   

							 
								 
									  Features  
									  Hall of Shame  
									  Celebrity Duffers  
								 
								 
										
  
 
   
	
Divine 9 Road Trip puts Carson City, Nevada golf memorably on the map  
 
A tradition in Carson City, Nev., the Divine 9 Road Trip is a party on wheels. Participants play nine courses - such as Genoa Lakes Golf Club and Dayton Valley Golf & Country Club - two holes each, all over the course of 11 hours - plus share laughs, stories and spirits along the way.  ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
Is having children worth sacrificing my dream of a country club membership?  
 
I've been slumming it out on cheap public courses my entire life. At one point, aren't I entitled as a lifelong golfer to finally enjoy the fruits of my suffering on a well conditioned, thoughtfully designed private course from one of the game's premier architects?  ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
The FedEx Cup: The most important tournament-ish golf-thingy of 2009  
 
In 2009, the FedEx Cup is the last big event-ish-like thing-y that Tiger Woods can win, his final chance to save his season and possibly golf. If Steve Stricker wins, everything Tiger has accomplished in his career is for naught.  ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
Sergio Garcia had no chance at Hazeltine, none! Why?  
 
Like many of you out there, I have long been dazzled by the ability and charisma of Sergio Garcia. I fully bought into the idea that Sergio could be the next Seve Ballesteros and provide Tiger Woods with a generation-long challenge. And I, like many others, was terribly, terribly wrong.  ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
The only two golf lessons you'll ever need  
 
Forget all the lessons you took from golf pros. Forget the straight left arm, proper posture, head still, full shoulder turn, pronate, supinate, belt buckle to target, complete follow through, right elbow in pocket and the zillion other things some guy charged you $40 a half hour to remember. There are only two lessons you'll need in order to be a good golfer.  ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
Like it or not, in golf, us old guys rule  
 
Like it or not, folks, when it comes to golf, us old guys rule. The average age of an avid golfer is in the mid-50s, and 78 percent of that group is male. Here are the top 10 reasons why old timers love the game so damn much ...  ... full article È 
 

 
   
What can be done about slow play in golf (Or: Why golfers don't carry guns)   
   
Gambling and golf (or why a dime isn't 10 cents)   
   
Straight down the middle (or: how to cheat in golf with ChapStick)   
   
Barack Obama: BadGolfer.com's Bad Golfer Of The Decade   
   
Spice up your raincheck with Mio Destino's new golf lingerie    
   
A golf bailout? As economy struggles, PGA Tour must make the cut   
   
Ultimate springtime golf fitness tips for "real" golfers   
   
John Daly shocks, angers golf fans by not overindulging for an entire day   
 
  

								 
								 
										
  
 
   
	
Tiger Woods vs. Jack Nicklaus: Let the bad comparisons begin  
 
Golf fans will soon be deluged, literally deluged, with stories comparing Nicklaus and Woods. Seriously, it will be like a swarm of locusts, only more powerful and more painful to listen to. So, for golf journalists and bloggers everywhere, I figured I'd throw out a few ideas for future articles, some ideas on ways to compare Nicklaus and Woods.  ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
Ten ways to be a lousy golf partner  
 
Want to ensure you're never invited to play with the gals? Want to really annoy your golfing buddies? Here are some sure-fire methods to become the person no one wants to be paired with.   ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
The ultimate golf conspiracy theory: There is no Tiger Woods  
 
This latest piece of information shows the depth and depravity of the super-secret groups that quietly run the planet. What you are about to read will shock you to your very core, especially if you're a fan of the PGA Tour: There is no Tiger Woods.  ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
Tee Time Girl tells you how to score on your golf date   
 
While fantasy golf has become a game played by the masses, the golf fantasy of playing around during or after playing a round is like getting a happy ending after an awesome full-body massage.   ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
Spice up your raincheck with Mio Destino's new golf lingerie   
 
Gentlemen, if you're thinking about golf while in the throws of passion with your lady, chances are you're probably well beyond the reaches of anything clinical psychology or modern prescriptions can help with. For those poor, poor souls, the United Kingdom's Mio Destino Lingerie has launched a new set of golf-themed lingerie.   ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
Stripes & plaids: Awful (or lucky?) golf clothes live on  
 
One group is constant in every golf club; their names change but their clothes don't. They are R.O.B. (Rich Old Boys) at my club; they may be the super seniors at yours. They have their own forward tees and they play midweek in the morning. You know these guys, always smiling, having fun. And in every club I know they have one distinct characteristic. They dress REALLY BAD and they don't care.  ... full article È 
 

 
   
Patricia Hannigan: A fun and flirty Golf Girl burning up the blog-o-sphere   
   
The only two golf lessons you'll ever need   
   
Golf-loving radio king Rush Limbaugh hits it right on Clooney, Clinton and Wie   
 
  

								 
								 
										
  
 
   
	
How do you escape Brett Favre's returning shadow? New Green Bay Packers QB Aaron Rodgers golfs  
 
How's Aaron Rodgers, the 24-year-old never-been-an-NFL-starter quarterback set to replace Brett Favre as QB of the Green Bay Packers, handling the pressure? He's golfing. Rodgers played in the American Century Celebrity Championship at Lake Tahoe, where he spoke to BadGolfer.com about Favre, gearing up for the season and his golf game.  ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
Comic Mike McDonald can't stop talking about his (golf) balls  
 
Why is it that all comedian Mike McDonald wants to talk about are his balls? Actually, there's a simple reason - McDonald has come out with his own line of comedy golf balls, and like his comedy career, it appears this venture will also be a success. At very least, his "World's Funniest Golf Balls" will be good for a laugh.  ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
Golf-loving radio king Rush Limbaugh hits it right on Clooney, Clinton and Wie  
 
They were graying, they had enough money to live on a golf course and they were in love. They called out Rush Limbaugh's name as he walked down the fairways, pleaded for autographs the way the others in the crowd screamed for the rock stars.  ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
Al Franken: Wrestling Rush Limbaugh wouldn't be fair  
 
In the interest of fairness and balance, we decided to get a liberal spokesman to respond to Rush Limbaugh. And who better than Al Franken?  ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
Maury Povich: "I'm the best of the TV-news and talk-show-host golfers!"  
 
When an autograph-hunting fan at the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic screamed, "Maury, you're why I'm here!" Povich laughed before anyone. "You're here to see Maury Povich," Povich smiled as he signed the woman's program. "Right."  ... full article È 
 

 
   
	
Cardinals steal man Vince Coleman brings his swagger to golf  
 
Vince Coleman may be just about the last athlete you'd expect to be finding happy refuge in the slow, steady rhythm of golf. It's still hard to imagine one of the fastest men in baseball doing anything slow. But now, retired and living in a town that worships golf, Coleman can hold his addiction to the game up with anyone's.  ... full article È 
 

 
   
Barack Obama: BadGolfer.com's Bad Golfer Of The Decade   
   
Daniel "Kid Poker" Negreanu: Golf is more fun when you're betting millions in Las Vegas   
   
Entourage HBO star Kevin Dillon goes Johnny Drama over golf, Mickelson, Winged Foot   
 
  

								 
							 


							   
							  
						 

               	    

                   


                     
                       
					  		  Certified Hackers: 
					  	 
							 Nominate a hacker! 
							 Got a friend who sucks at golf? Don't let them toddle along in anonymity - it's time to give him the notoriety he so richly deserves! Send us your pal's name and hometown and tell us a bit about how badly he stinks up the links. 
							 
							 
							 
								 Scott Klink
                                 from New Albany, Ind. generally shoots over 
                                 100 and really ought to play golf with 
                                 a Weed Wacker. He has a swing like 
                                 Charles Barkley on his worst day, and 
                                 if crap golf were a crime, he'd get the chair.
									 (Nominated by Scott Burch) 
								 

								 Jim Wynn 
                                 from Savannah, Ga. generally shoots over 
                                 120 and really ought to play golf with 
                                 a Weed Wacker. He has a swing like 
                                 a drunk Mexican clobbering a pinata and, 
                                 gets an unplayable lie on the first tee.
									 (Nominated by Brandon Hill) 
								 

								 Steve "Slicer Machunkin" 
                                 from Reedsport, Ore. generally shoots over 
                                 100 and really ought to play golf with 
                                 a rope and a kickstool. He has a swing like 
                                 a drunk Mexican clobbering a pinata and, 
                                 he's in a sand trap, cats try to bury him.
									 (Nominated by Dustin Dibala) 
								 

								 Martin Holmes
                                 from St. Annes generally shoots around 
                                 100 and really ought to play golf with 
                                 a blue dot over his face. He has a swing like 
                                 someone being tasered and, 
                                 he gets an unplayable lie on the first tee.

									 (Nominated by Ian M.) 
								 

								

								

								

							 
						 

					   
					 



                     
                       
					  	  Video of the day  

    
 Our BadGolfer.com editors took time out of their busy schedule of drinking and golfing to make an intern scour the Web for these golf videos. 
 Be warned: Some clips contain language that is inappropriate for some users (the Scots especially - they talk dirtier than  Tiger fu***ing Woods )! 

 Click  here  to see recent hacker videos. Got one we  should see?  

						 
					 
		
		


                   
                	 
                  



                
                




        		  
        	  
        	
        	
        	 
        		 
        		
                
 
 
		 
				 
  

	  
		  
	   

 
	 
			 
				                    
				 
				 
			 
	 
     

	  
		
  

  
 Pinehurst Golf Packages 

	 
		 
			 
				
			 
		 
		 
			 
				Winter Savings!			 
		 
		 
			Dates: December 1, 2011 - February 29, 2012		 
		 
			Play two rounds of golf and stay one night in Pinehurst for only $99 per person.		 
		 
			Price range: $99		 
		 
			For more information, please call 
			1-877-284-3762 
			or 
			 click here .
		 

  
	 
  
  
 Myrtle Beach Golf Packages 

	 
		 
			 
				
			 
		 
		 
			 
				Camelot by the Sea: From $29.00 Per Night, Per Person!			 
		 
		 
			Dates: November 30, 2009 - January 18, 2012		 
		 
			The Membership Package includes oceanfront accommodations, one round of golf* on your choice of 24 championship courses, deluxe breakfast, and a souvenir golf towel.		 
		 
			Price range: ask		 
		 
			For more information, please call 
			866-270-2168 
			or 
			 click here .
		 

  
	 
  
  
 Bandera Golf Packages 

	 
		 
			 
				
			 
		 
		 
			 
				Flying L Guest Ranch - $99 Golf Getaway			 
		 
		 
			Dates: January 1, 2011 - December 31, 2011		 
		 
			Golf Stay and Play package includes dinner on arrival, breakfast and dinner on full day, breakfast on departure, one round of golf per person per day, nightly Western entertainment, campfire and s'mores, water park admission, supervised kids activities, "Par"dner's Putt Putt.		 
		 
			Price range: $99		 
		 
			For more information, please call 
			1-800-646-5407 
			or 
			 click here .
		 

  
	 
  

	  

	  
          


	  




		 

	 
		  
	 

	 


       
		  
	  


	 
		  
	 
        	
	
  

 
	  
	  
	  
		 
			© Copyright 1995-2011 WorldGolf.com