Lake Erie Golf Tour 

	 
	 

	

	

	 

	 

	 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 


 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
  
  Northeast Ohio Golf  

   

   

   
		

	 



		 



			 

	

			
			

								

				 Category — Lake Erie Golf Tour 

				
			

				 

					
			

					  Lake Erie Golf Tour’s Hole-in-One Company Says: “Unpaid $5,000 Is Not Our Fault”  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 3, 2011    16 Comments  

					 

 To help Matt Heestand get the $5,000 hole-in-one prize he earned with an ace in the  Lake Erie Golf Tour’s Tam-O-Shanter  event, Northeast Ohio Golf contacted the insurance company that LEGT listed on their website as their sponsor, the National Hole-In-One Association. 
 Brad Henderson, the Advertising Manager for the National Hole-In-One Association, responded to NEOHgolf.com’s request for additional information about the LEGT’s unpaid prize to Heestand.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Lake Erie Golf Tour’s $5,000 Hole-in-One Prize Still Not Paid After Three Months  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  September 26, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 On June 30th, Matt Heestand of Parma made a hole-in-one in the Amateur Division at the  Lake Erie Golf Tour event at Tam-O-Shanter Golf Club  in Canton.  
 That ace was supposed to net Heestand a cool $5,000 prize through a season-long sponsorship deal with the National Hole In One Association, payable for any hole-in-one made by any player all season long, according to the LEGT website.  
 But almost three months after the hole-in-one that Canton event, Heestand has yet to receive his $5,000 payment.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  FINAL RESULTS: 2011 LEGT Tour Championship  

					 by Chris Marino  |  September 22, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Blake Sattler of New Philadelphia, Ohio won the Lake Erie Golf Tour’s final event of the 2011 season, the Tour Championship at The Elms Country Club in Massillon on Thursday.  
   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Lake Erie Golf Tour – Signature of Solon Results  

					 by Chris Marino  |  September 9, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Tim Ailes of Lewis Center, OH won the Lake Erie Golf Tour tournament at the Signature of Solon on Thursday.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Lake Erie Golf Tour Announces Tour Championship with First Place Prize Guarantees  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  August 30, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Lake Erie Golf Tour Director Chris Marino announced today that his Tour Championship, the final tournament of the 2011 season, will be played on Thursday, September 22nd at The Elms Country Club in Massillon. Courtesy of some sponsorships, the LEGT will guarantee the minimum payouts for first place at the Tour Championship: $1,000 in the Pro Division and $500 in the Amateur Division.  Entry details here . Two other LEGT events remain in September before the Championship; see the  Tournament Calendar .  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  RESULTS: 2011 Lake Erie Golf Tour – Pine Hills v2  

					 by Chris Marino  |  August 26, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 With a solid performance in regulation turning into a playoff victory against a veteran professional, Steve Weir of Berea earned the Lake Erie Golf Tour tournament at Pine Hills in Hinckley on Thursday. 
 Weir picked up his second victory of the year, the first also coming at Pine Hills early in the season.   
 Scoring conditions were optimum on Thursday, as a handful of players finished under par. Weir, along with Eric Frishette of Columbus, lit it up as both players posted scores of 7-under par 65.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  LEGT Guarantees $1K First Prize for Pine Hills  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  August 19, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Lake Erie Golf Tour Executive Director Chris Marino is guaranteeing a first place Professional Division prize of at least $1,000 for the  tournament next Thursday at Pine Hills Golf Club  in Hinckley — regardless of the number of pro entries. Pro entry fees are $150 for Members (those who paid $100 for the season) and $175 for non-members. Should be interesting to see if his guarantee increases entry numbers, which have averaged just 10 pros per event in the last six weeks… 

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  RESULTS: 2011 Lake Erie Golf Tour – Chippewa v2  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  August 18, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Vaughn Snyder of Massillon, Ohio won the Lake Erie Golf Tour tournament at Chippewa Golf Club today, his second LEGT victory of the season.  
 In tough course conditions and with even tougher pin placements, Snyder fought his way to a 1-under par score of 70 to win by one stroke over Steve Lee of Columbus.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  RESULTS: 2011 Lake Erie Golf Tour – Sleepy Hollow  

					 by Chris Marino  |  August 5, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Nick Latimer of Brooklyn, OH won the Lake Erie Golf Tour tournament played at Sleepy Hollow Golf Course in Brecksville on Thursday. 
 Latimer birdied the first three holes and never looked back, posting a 4-under par score of 67 to cruise to a three shot victory over Steve Lee of Columbus.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  RESULTS: 2011 Lake Erie Golf Tour – Good Park  

					 by Chris Marino  |  July 29, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Vaughn Snyder of Massilon, OH won the Lake Erie Golf Tour tournament played at Good Park Golf Course in Akron Thursday.  
 In wet, sloppy, conditions, Snyder fired an impressive -3 (67) to win by two shots over Steve Lee of Columbus -1 (69) and Louis Lapos of Sheffield -1 (69).   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  LEGT Cancels Hawthorne Valley Event  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  July 6, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Posted July 5th to the Lake Erie Golf Tour website regarding the tournament scheduled for today at Hawthorne Valley Golf Club:  
 “Due to the loss of a loved one, the Lake Erie Golf Tour has canceled the Hawthorne Valley tournament. Normal tournament play will resume after the mid-season break on Thursday, July 28th at Good Park.” 

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  RESULTS: 2011 Lake Erie Golf Tour – Tam O’ Shanter  

					 by Chris Marino  |  June 30, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Ryan Stefanski of Brecksville, OH won the Lake Erie Golf Tour tournament played at Tam O’ Shanter Golf Course in Canton today.  
 Stefanski turned at 2-under par then finished strong, making birdies on three of his last four holes to finish at 4-under par 66, good for a three shot victory over Vaughn Snyder and Blake Sattler.  
 But the big story of the day took place in the Amateur Division, as Matt Heestand of Parma played flawlessly as well — also firing a 4-under par 66 and also winning by three shots — but his round included a HOLE-IN-ONE on the par-3 14th hole!  
 The Lake Erie Golf Tour has a season-long sponsorship deal with the National Hole In One Association, so Heestand’s ace earns him a cool $5,000 cash prize!  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  RESULTS: 2011 Lake Erie Golf Tour – Aurora  

					 by Chris Marino  |  June 16, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Tim Ailes of Lewis Center, OH picked up his second victory of the season on the Lake Erie Golf Tour, winning the event played Thursday at Aurora Golf Club. 
 Ailes made seven birdies on the day — including the first four holes on the back nine — on his way to a 5-under par score of 66 and a two stroke win over runner-up Steve Lee.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  RESULTS: 2011 Lake Erie Golf Tour – Chippewa  

					 by Chris Marino  |  June 10, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Ryan Gutowski of Fairlawn, Ohio won the Lake Erie Golf Tour tournament at Chippewa Golf Club on Thursday, posting a strong 6-under par score of 65 to win by three shots.   
 Gutowski finished his round strongly, making birdies on three of the last four holes to beat last week’s LEGT event winner Tim Ailes.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  RESULTS: 2011 Lake Erie Golf Tour – Gleneagles  

					 by Chris Marino  |  June 2, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Tim Ailes of Lewis Center, OH cruised to an impressive six shot victory in the Lake Erie Golf Tour event at Gleneagles GC in Twinsburg on Thursday, matching the course record with a 7-under par score of 65.  
 Ailes caught fire early and never looked back, making the turn at 5-under par and then coasting through the back nine on his way to his first win.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  RESULTS: 2011 Lake Erie Golf Tour – Pine Hills  

					 by Chris Marino  |  May 26, 2011    1 Comment  

					 

 In what could be considered a ‘home game,’ Steve Weir of Berea won the 2011 Lake Erie Golf Tour event at Pine Hills Golf Club in Hinckley today. In wet conditions, Weir fired an impressive 5-under par 67 to win by one shot over former Kent State standout Nick Latimer.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

				 

			

				
 
	  ? Previous Entries  
 


			

			
			

			 



			 

	 

 

			 Navigation 

			 

  TOURNAMENT CALENDAR  

  EMAIL NEWSLETTER  

  LOCAL GOLF NEWS FEEDS  

  HOME  |  Archives  |  About Us   

  ADVERTISE  |  Sponsors  

  
    
    
  













			 

		 

  Search This Site 
 
	 
	 
 
 
  Most Commented Posts 
   Thanks for a Great 2011 Tournament Season  (1)   RESULTS: 2011 Pine Hills 3-M Extreme Scramble  (1)   
  NEOH GOLF WEATHER 
 
		 
			 
				Light rain
				46°F
				
			 
		
				 
					Wed
					 
					40/29  
				 
				 
					Thu
					 
					43/29  
				 
				 
					Fri
					 
					38/27  
				 
				
				
		 
		 
		  
		 
  Topic Categories 
		 
	  Golf Chatter 
 
	  Golf Photo Galleries 
 
	  Golf Tournaments 
 
	  Akron District Golf Association 
 
	  Ashland Am-Am 
 
	  Championship Golf Association 
 
	  Cleveland Amateur Championship 
 
	  Cleveland MetroParks Golf 
 
	  Golf Channel Amateur Tour 
 
	  Lake Erie Golf Tour 
 
	  NOPGA 
 
	  Northern Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Stark County Amateur Golf Association 
 
	  Summit County Amateur Championship 
 
 
 
	  Scratch Golf Leagues 
 
	  Chippewa Scratch League 
 
	  Greater Cleveland Skins Game 
 
 
 
	  State & National Associations 
 
	  Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Ohio Public Golf Association 
 
	  USGA 
 
 
 
		 
 
  Support the Website 
			  Your support is appreciated!   
 
 
 
 

 
  Or support the site and promote your business:  ADVERTISE!   
		 

	 

 
		

		 

	

		 
	 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
 			      
		 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
	 
 
		

	 

		

 

  Subscribe via RSS  



 © Northeast Ohio Golf /  Cleveland Creative Inc.  All rights reserved. | FOLLOW US    |    | 