Golf Chatter 

	 
	 

	

	

	 

	 

	 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 


 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
  
  Northeast Ohio Golf  

   

   

   
		

	 



		 



			 

	

			
			

								

				 Category — Golf Chatter 

				
			

				 

					
			

					  Northeast Ohio Players Attack Stage II Q-School  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  November 19, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 UPDATED: Unfortunately, none of the pros with Northeast Ohio ties advanced through the second stage of the 2011 PGA Tour Qualifying Tournament.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Thanks for a Great 2011 Tournament Season  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  November 9, 2011    1 Comment  

					 

 With the start of November, it’s time to call it a season and wind down on 2011. 
 To the tournament players of Northeast Ohio, to the ‘executive directors’ of the golf events run throughout the area, and to the readers of this website who don’t play at a competitive level but simply want to keep up with tournament golf in Greater Cleveland — thanks once again for sharing another great golf season right here on NEOHgolf.com.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Duda Earns “Fall Tour Triple” with Bailey at Big Met  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 29, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Derek Duda of Seven Hills completed the Cleveland Metroparks “Fall Tour Triple Crown” by being a part of the winning team at the Fall Tour 2-Man Scramble at Big Met on Saturday. 
 In chilly and wet conditions, Duda and partner Andrew Bailey shot an 11-under par score of 61 to win by two shots over last year’s Fall 2-Man champions, Brian Smith and Norton Brick.  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Save a Few Bucks While Getting Tournament-Ready  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 28, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Northeast Ohio Golf loves passing on tips that can save tournament players some money. So here’s one we’ve heard a couple of times now from a couple of different players: if you’re looking to book a practice round tee time at a specific golf course in advance of a tournament date, spending five minutes online can save you some cash.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Unk and Snyder Advance Through First Stage of PGA Tour Q-School; Other Local Players Miss  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 28, 2011    1 Comment  

					 

 Vaughn Snyder of Massillon advanced through the first stage of PGA Tour Qualifying School ‘on the number’ last Friday, finishing in a tie for the final spot at 6-under 282 at  Grasslands Golf & Country Club, Lakeland, FL . 
 Brian Unk of Lewis Center easily made it through his first stage test, finishing T10 after shooting 289 (+1) in windy conditions at  Deerwood Golf Club in Kingwood, TX . 
 And former Kent State player John Hahn of Hudson, now living full time in Las Vegas, tied for fourth place at 284 (-4) to advance from the qualifier at  Pinewild Country Club in Pinehurst, NC . 
 While Snyder, Unk and Hahn will move on to second stage events in mid-November, other local players who also tested the Q-School waters did not fare as well. [NEWLY UPDATED]  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Heestand Offers His Thoughts on “Hole-in-One-Gate”  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 19, 2011    2 Comments  

					 

 In the three-and-a-half months he waited for his $5,000 payment from the LEGT and the National Hole in One Association, Matt Heestand never once made an online comment about the situation. Now he weighs in.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Heestand Receives $5K LEGT Hole In One Payment  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 17, 2011    7 Comments  

					 

 Parma amateur Matt Heestand received his $5,000 payment directly from the National Hole in One Association last Friday, October 14th, when the management team at NHIOA expedited the process after acknowledging the longer-than-usual delay.  
 Heestand made his hole-in-one at the Lake Erie Golf Tour event at Tam-o-Shanter Golf Course on June 30th. The LEGT had offered a $5,000 hole-in-one prize on its website to any player making an ace at any par-3 hole at any event throughout the 2011 season. But some missing and/or incorrectly completed paperwork by LEGT Director Chris Marino delayed the payment to Heestand for months.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Start of the October Scramble Season Is Here!  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 3, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Get your teammates together for the October scramble schedule and get your entries submitted now! On tap this weekend: Oak Harbor 6-M, the Barbour Cup, Twin Lakes 2-M and a biggie on Sunday, the Sawmill Creek 4-M…   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Lake Erie Golf Tour’s Hole-in-One Company Says: “Unpaid $5,000 Is Not Our Fault”  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 3, 2011    16 Comments  

					 

 To help Matt Heestand get the $5,000 hole-in-one prize he earned with an ace in the  Lake Erie Golf Tour’s Tam-O-Shanter  event, Northeast Ohio Golf contacted the insurance company that LEGT listed on their website as their sponsor, the National Hole-In-One Association. 
 Brad Henderson, the Advertising Manager for the National Hole-In-One Association, responded to NEOHgolf.com’s request for additional information about the LEGT’s unpaid prize to Heestand.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Chippewa Scratch Canceled for 3rd Straight Week  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 3, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 The plans were laid for a great night of golf, a carry-over skins pot, and the season’s final steak night. But Mother Nature raised the one finger salute instead.  
 The Chippewa Scratch League has been CANCELED once again for tonight, Monday, October 3rd due to wet conditions. Hopefully next week…  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Steven, Brick 2011 NOGA Players of the Year  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  September 29, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 The Northern Ohio Golf Association announced today that Brad Steven of Quail Hollow Country Club and Norton Brick of Oberlin CC are the 2011 NOGA Players of the Year in the regular and senior divisions respectively.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  A Better Golf Swing for Just $257,000 per Hour  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  September 26, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 From  Golfweek.com : Hank Haney has been sued in U.S. District Court by a Pennsylvania woman and her son for consumer fraud.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Lake Erie Golf Tour’s $5,000 Hole-in-One Prize Still Not Paid After Three Months  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  September 26, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 On June 30th, Matt Heestand of Parma made a hole-in-one in the Amateur Division at the  Lake Erie Golf Tour event at Tam-O-Shanter Golf Club  in Canton.  
 That ace was supposed to net Heestand a cool $5,000 prize through a season-long sponsorship deal with the National Hole In One Association, payable for any hole-in-one made by any player all season long, according to the LEGT website.  
 But almost three months after the hole-in-one that Canton event, Heestand has yet to receive his $5,000 payment.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  PD Previews 2011 Shaw Cup  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  September 21, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Plain Dealer golf writer Tim Rogers previews this weekend’s Shaw Cup  here … 

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game: Week 22 Results  

					 by John Niedzialek  |  September 15, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 Wicked Woods in Newbury was the venue for the 22nd week of the 2011 Greater Cleveland Skins Game. 
 And on the first chilly, fall-feeling Thursday evening of this year, five skins were spread around — two of which were grabbed by a player who had not earned a skin in the previous 21 events on the season. 
  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  The Fairways at Twin Lakes Sports a New Look and a Full Slate of Fall Tournaments and Clubhouse Events  

					 by Sponsor Message  |  September 6, 2011    No Comments  

					 

  The Clubhouse at The Fairways at Twin Lakes and one of the newly renovated bunkers.  
 The Fairways at Twin Lakes is ‘new and improved’ and invites all golfers in Northeast Ohio to come out and experience the changes! To get players to visit The Fairways at Twin Lakes, the course is offering some great fall rates starting September 1st: only $10 for nine holes with a cart or $20 for 18 with a cart!  
 More interested in tournament action? Try out our series of cash scrambles and big skins games at Twin Lakes in September and October…  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

				 

			

				
 
	  ? Previous Entries  
 


			

			
			

			 



			 

	 

 

			 Navigation 

			 

  TOURNAMENT CALENDAR  

  EMAIL NEWSLETTER  

  LOCAL GOLF NEWS FEEDS  

  HOME  |  Archives  |  About Us   

  ADVERTISE  |  Sponsors  

  
    
    
  













			 

		 

  Search This Site 
 
	 
	 
 
 
  Most Commented Posts 
   Thanks for a Great 2011 Tournament Season  (1)   RESULTS: 2011 Pine Hills 3-M Extreme Scramble  (1)   
  NEOH GOLF WEATHER 
 
		 
			 
				Light rain
				46°F
				
			 
		
				 
					Wed
					 
					40/29  
				 
				 
					Thu
					 
					43/29  
				 
				 
					Fri
					 
					38/27  
				 
				
				
		 
		 
		  
		 
  Topic Categories 
		 
	  Golf Chatter 
 
	  Golf Photo Galleries 
 
	  Golf Tournaments 
 
	  Akron District Golf Association 
 
	  Ashland Am-Am 
 
	  Championship Golf Association 
 
	  Cleveland Amateur Championship 
 
	  Cleveland MetroParks Golf 
 
	  Golf Channel Amateur Tour 
 
	  Lake Erie Golf Tour 
 
	  NOPGA 
 
	  Northern Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Stark County Amateur Golf Association 
 
	  Summit County Amateur Championship 
 
 
 
	  Scratch Golf Leagues 
 
	  Chippewa Scratch League 
 
	  Greater Cleveland Skins Game 
 
 
 
	  State & National Associations 
 
	  Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Ohio Public Golf Association 
 
	  USGA 
 
 
 
		 
 
  Support the Website 
			  Your support is appreciated!   
 
 
 
 

 
  Or support the site and promote your business:  ADVERTISE!   
		 

	 

 
		

		 

	

		 
	 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
 			      
		 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
	 
 
		

	 

		

 

  Subscribe via RSS  



 © Northeast Ohio Golf /  Cleveland Creative Inc.  All rights reserved. | FOLLOW US    |    | 