Golf Channel Amateur Tour 

	 
	 

	

	

	 

	 

	 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 


 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
  
  Northeast Ohio Golf  

   

   

   
		

	 



		 



			 

	

			
			

								

				 Category — Golf Channel Amateur Tour 

				
			

				 

					
			

					  Golf Channel Amateur Tour Announces 2011 Schedule, Tournament Formats  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  February 15, 2011    No Comments  

					 

 After announcing in December that the Ohio Golf Tour was being merged in, the newly named director of the Golf Channel Amateur Tour for the Cleveland region provides details about that event series and its 2011 Northeast Ohio tournament schedule.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Ohio Golf Tour Merges With Golf Channel Am Tour  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  December 11, 2010    1 Comment  

					 

 Golf Connect, the national organization behind a series of regional amateur golf tours including the locally run  Ohio Golf Tour , has announced that they are merging with the Golf Channel Am Tour for the upcoming 2011 season.  [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Get Those Entries In for April Tournament Golf  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  March 30, 2010    No Comments  

					 

   Talk about pent up demand! Tournament golfers in Northeast Ohio can’t wait to get back into competition after a long, cold winter. And while one early season scramble is already a full-field affair with a waiting list, there are still plenty of options for playing tournament golf in April in Northeast Ohio:   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  PREVIEW: 2010 Ohio Golf Tour  

					 by Al Canitia  |  March 8, 2010    No Comments  

					 

 Thank you to everyone who played last year! We are less than seven weeks away from our first event.  Most of the snow will be melting this week, so this will give everyone the opportunity to start thinking more and more about golf.   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  Golf Galaxy Dumped for 2010 Cleveland Ohio Tour  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  December 11, 2009    1 Comment  

					 

 The “Golf Galaxy Tour” will be played again in 2010, but no longer with Golf Galaxy as their title sponsor. 
 This national group of local amateur golf events is changing its retail sponsor (now working with Austads) and the tour name for each region to focus on the local city (so instead of the Golf Galaxy tour, it will now be called the Ohio Golf Tour). 
 All tours will still be managed by GOLF CONNECT through its national office, and will still conduct a national championship. 
 The 2010 Ohio Golf Tour will feature lower entry fee and membership rates and a new prize pool structure. Details posted at  OhioGolfTour.com  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  SCAGA Scramble, ADGA “Shamble” This Weekend  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  August 10, 2009    No Comments  

					 

 On tap this weekend in Northeast Ohio Golf: 
 - The Stark County Amateur Golf Association will hold a 2-player scramble at Chippewa Golf Course in Doylestown this Saturday, August 15th. To register, visit the  SCAGA  website or call 330-696-1986; 
 - The Cleveland  Golf Galaxy Tour  plays at Greyhawk GC in LaGrange on Saturday; 
 - The Akron District Golf Association will host its final event of the regular season this Sunday, August 16, at the 3-Man Shamble at Lake Forest Country Club in Hudson. The shamble format: select the best shot off the tee, move all balls to that spot, then play individual stroke play from there. Add all three scores together for the team score. To register, visit the  ADGA  website or call (440) 848-8364; 
 - The Championship Golf Association plays an invitation-only event at Stonewater GC on Sunday. 
 Watch for results from all of these events on Northeast Ohio Golf! 

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2009 Golf Galaxy Tour for Greater Cleveland Kicks Off April 25 at StoneWater  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  March 24, 2009    No Comments  

					 

 If you want to try a different set of events this year, give the Cleveland version of the  Golf Galaxy Tour  a shot. 
 Yes, they pay gift certificate prizes to Golf Galaxy, and yes, the fields may not be quite as deep and competitive as some. But the roster of courses is top-notch, the events are well-run, and the costs to play are pretty reasonable. 
 In fact, you can save even more money: get another $10 off on those already reasonable entry fees by using the promo code NEOHGOLF every time you  register online  for an event!   [Read more ?]  

					 

					   

			

					
			

					  2008 Golf Galaxy Tour for Greater Cleveland  

					 by Allen Freeman  |  May 26, 2008    No Comments  

					 

 Northeast Ohio golfers looking for another competitive event option should check out the tournaments of the  Golf Galaxy Tour . 
 The events are a series of 2-player scrambles and better balls contested over the better public courses of greater Cleveland and Akron. 
 All of the prize payouts are made in Golf Galaxy gift certificates, but with an interesting twist: teams that win any event using the new Callaway iTour golf ball earn an additional $500 for the team in gift certificates as a bonus. So the return to the winning team is worthwhile if you play the bonus ball (but, candidly, not so much if you don’t, or don’t win). 
 Entry fees per player are listed below, which includes the green fees and carts. Players who choose to become “members” get the discounted VIP entry fee listed in parenthesis, but membership is not required. There are other optional games and prize levels that are too detailed to explain here; check the  Golf Galaxy Tour website  for details. 
 SAVE SOME MONEY WHEN YOU PLAY: enter the coupon code NEOHGOLF during any online registration and save $10 off the tournament entry fee or VIP Membership.  Click here to learn more about any of these events.   
 2008 GREATER CLEVELAND GOLF GALAXY TOUR SCHEDULE 
- Saturday, June 7: Little Mountain CC, Concord, OH. 1:00 PM 
$93 ($83 for VIPs) Best Ball Format. 
- Saturday, June 21: Fowler’s Mill GC, Chesterland, OH. 1:30 PM 
$89 ($79 for VIPs) Best Ball Format. 
- Saturday, July 26: Greyhawk GC,  Lagrange, OH. 11:00 AM 
$81 entry fee ($71 for VIPs) Best Ball Format. 
- Saturday, August 9: Windmill Lakes GC, Ravenna, OH.  11:00 AM 
$84 entry fee ($74 for VIPs) Best Ball Format. 
- Saturday, August 23: Blue Heron GC, Medina, OH. 11:00 AM 
$97 entry fee ($87 for VIPs) Scramble Format. 
- Saturday, September 6: The Quarry GC, Canton, OH. 12:00 PM 
$86 entry fee ($76 for VIPs) Best Ball Format. 
 All of these events are now posted to the  NEOHgolf.com Tournament Calendar . 
  Click here to visit the Golf Galaxy Tour website to learn more about or enter any of these events.  
 
–Allen Freeman 

					 

					   

			

					
			

				 

			

				
 
	  
 


			

			
			

			 



			 

	 

 

			 Navigation 

			 

  TOURNAMENT CALENDAR  

  EMAIL NEWSLETTER  

  LOCAL GOLF NEWS FEEDS  

  HOME  |  Archives  |  About Us   

  ADVERTISE  |  Sponsors  

  
    
    
  













			 

		 

  Search This Site 
 
	 
	 
 
 
  Most Commented Posts 
   Thanks for a Great 2011 Tournament Season  (1)   RESULTS: 2011 Pine Hills 3-M Extreme Scramble  (1)   
  NEOH GOLF WEATHER 
 
		 
			 
				Light rain
				46°F
				
			 
		
				 
					Wed
					 
					40/29  
				 
				 
					Thu
					 
					43/29  
				 
				 
					Fri
					 
					38/27  
				 
				
				
		 
		 
		  
		 
  Topic Categories 
		 
	  Golf Chatter 
 
	  Golf Photo Galleries 
 
	  Golf Tournaments 
 
	  Akron District Golf Association 
 
	  Ashland Am-Am 
 
	  Championship Golf Association 
 
	  Cleveland Amateur Championship 
 
	  Cleveland MetroParks Golf 
 
	  Golf Channel Amateur Tour 
 
	  Lake Erie Golf Tour 
 
	  NOPGA 
 
	  Northern Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Stark County Amateur Golf Association 
 
	  Summit County Amateur Championship 
 
 
 
	  Scratch Golf Leagues 
 
	  Chippewa Scratch League 
 
	  Greater Cleveland Skins Game 
 
 
 
	  State & National Associations 
 
	  Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Ohio Public Golf Association 
 
	  USGA 
 
 
 
		 
 
  Support the Website 
			  Your support is appreciated!   
 
 
 
 

 
  Or support the site and promote your business:  ADVERTISE!   
		 

	 

 
		

		 

	

		 
	 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
 			      
		 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
	 
 
		

	 

		

 

  Subscribe via RSS  



 © Northeast Ohio Golf /  Cleveland Creative Inc.  All rights reserved. | FOLLOW US    |    | 