Heestand Offers His Thoughts on "Hole-in-One-Gate" 

	 
	 

	

	

	 

	 

	 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
  
  Northeast Ohio Golf  

   

   

   


	 

	

		 

	

			 

		

				 


		

					 Heestand Offers His Thoughts on “Hole-in-One-Gate” 

					 by Allen Freeman  |  October 19, 2011 

   
   

   

   

 

 In the three-and-a-half months he waited for his $5,000 payment from the LEGT and the National Hole in One Association, Matt Heestand never once made an online comment about the situation. Now he weighs in.  
 The following letter was received by NEOHgolf.com today with a request for publication: 
  First of all, I would like to thank NEOHgolf.com. What a wonderful website and resource for golfers to take advantage of in our area and all across Ohio and even our neighboring states. NEOHgolf.com especially makes competitive golf in greater Cleveland and Akron more fun. Hands down, the site focuses on local amateur and professional tournament golf better than any other media outlet in the region. On any given week, you can find some kind of game or tournament to your liking to participate in. With next day or even same day results from all the action across our regions tournaments, qualifiers and championships, the website is such a valuable tool that golfers in our area should continue to support and really take advantage of. 
 To Allen, the sponsors and all the other dedicated “golf guys” who run the great events throughout Northeast Ohio, I applaud and thank you. I speak for myself, but I know many golfers feel the same and are very thankful for the site. I want to make one thing clear though, not one time did I ask NEOHgolf.com or anyone for that matter to post any story or any comment regarding the LEGT and the delay in payment for the hole-in-one. I was surprised at first to see a story about it and it didn’t even cross my mind as being “newsworthy”. However, I believe it speaks volume to the “support” that NEOHgolf.com provides golfers alike in our region. To support a community of golfers, and individual players and competitors whom are all teeing it up against each other on a weekly basis is what makes NEOHgolf.com first class. The support provided from NEOHgolf.com to not just me, but to all golfers in the area is extraordinary. Most golfers are really good guys and we can all respect and relate to each other on some level and what creates that sense of unity is the game of Golf. To most of us, the game brings us together in a unique way that provides hopes and dreams, happiness, anger, satisfaction, frustration and most importantly an escape from our everyday thoughts and problems that golfers on any level can relate too. The support, the competition, the tournaments and all the great people you meet from the game of golf, especially in our region is something special and something we should all be proud of. I believe that NEOHgolf.com is a big part of that unity and also for our golf community by marketing and providing information on the best tournaments around. Thank you NEOHgolf.com and keep up the wonderful work. I know it takes a lot time, energy and dedication and I am thankful for that. 
 I want to thank Chris Marino for the LEGT and his continuous determination to get a tour up and running for amateurs and professionals in this area. I would also like to thank the sponsors affiliated with LEGT; together this is a rich resource for competitive golf in our area. I know success does not come over night when attempting to do something like start your own tour. I do hope that the LEGT will be successful in the near future and be even more polished going into the 2012 golf season. I am proud to be a part of the LEGT and believe that it can be a tremendous success to amateurs and professionals alike and look forward to its continued growth in the future. It is good to know that every week in the summer we have a tour with great competition playing for cash prizes on some of the area’s best courses. 
 Sincerely, 
Matt Heestand  



 LIKE | TWEET | PLUS| SHARE | EMAIL | PRINT THIS STORY:  


 
  
  
  
  
|
  
|
  

 
  


 

		

				 

		

				



 

	 2 comments 
	
	 

	
			
		 
			 1 
			Aaron Crewse { 10.19.11 at 10:39 am }
		 
		 
			 
				 Well said Matt…handled with absolute class. 
 
							 
		 
		
				
			
		 
			 2 
			Carl Behrens { 10.19.11 at 11:32 am }
		 
		 
			 
				 Well done Matt. 
 
							 
		 
		
				
			
	 
		
	

	
		
			
			 You must  log in  to post a comment. 
	
		
  


		

			 

		

			 

	 

 

			 Navigation 

			 

  TOURNAMENT CALENDAR  

  EMAIL NEWSLETTER  

  LOCAL GOLF NEWS FEEDS  

  HOME  |  Archives  |  About Us   

  ADVERTISE  |  Sponsors  

  
    
    
  













			 

		 

  Search This Site 
 
	 
	 
 
 
  Most Commented Posts 
   Thanks for a Great 2011 Tournament Season  (1)   RESULTS: 2011 Pine Hills 3-M Extreme Scramble  (1)   
  NEOH GOLF WEATHER 
 
		 
			 
				Light rain
				46°F
				
			 
		
				 
					Wed
					 
					40/29  
				 
				 
					Thu
					 
					43/29  
				 
				 
					Fri
					 
					38/27  
				 
				
				
		 
		 
		  
		 
  Topic Categories 
		 
	  Golf Chatter 
 
	  Golf Photo Galleries 
 
	  Golf Tournaments 
 
	  Akron District Golf Association 
 
	  Ashland Am-Am 
 
	  Championship Golf Association 
 
	  Cleveland Amateur Championship 
 
	  Cleveland MetroParks Golf 
 
	  Golf Channel Amateur Tour 
 
	  Lake Erie Golf Tour 
 
	  NOPGA 
 
	  Northern Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Stark County Amateur Golf Association 
 
	  Summit County Amateur Championship 
 
 
 
	  Scratch Golf Leagues 
 
	  Chippewa Scratch League 
 
	  Greater Cleveland Skins Game 
 
 
 
	  State & National Associations 
 
	  Ohio Golf Association 
 
	  Ohio Public Golf Association 
 
	  USGA 
 
 
 
		 
 
  Support the Website 
			  Your support is appreciated!   
 
 
 
 

 
  Or support the site and promote your business:  ADVERTISE!   
		 

	 

 
	

		 

	

		 
	 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
 			      
		 
 			  
  
  
  
		 
	 
 
		

	 



 

  Subscribe via RSS  



 © Northeast Ohio Golf /  Cleveland Creative Inc.  All rights reserved. | FOLLOW US    |    | 