Amateur Golf Today - Everything you need for your golf game 
 

  
 
    
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

      

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 Home  
 
 
 Amateur News   
  Archive  
  Charity Golf Days  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers   
  Book Tee Times   
  Golf Breaks & Holidays   
  Travel Features   
  Equipment  -  Shop  
  Instruction  
  Services Directory  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Classified Ads  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  




 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      


  
 	 
 
  
    
  Amateur Golf  
  
 
 
  
 
   
       
  


    
    

    
    
    
     
    
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  Scottish Awards   
 The Scottish golf industry's top honours announced in St Andrews  .  
  
    
  
  Amended Rules of Golf  
Rules of Golf amended by agreement between R&A and USGA. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
    
 
 
  

 
 
   


  COMPETITIONS, GIFTS AND OFFERS  
 
   WIN a golf break at Selsdon Park!   
 
  WIN 18 holes at Rockliffe Hall   
 
   WIN London Golf Show tickets   
 
  WIN a Plaser golf swing training aid   
 
  Open Champion Tom Watson's DVD   
 
  Give the Open Fairways card for Xmas!   
 

 
  
   
 
 INSTRUCTION FEATURES   
 
    Lee Westwood - The Ultimate Driver   
 
    Tiger Woods Swing Sequence   
 
    Tick Tock - Dial in wedges   
 
   Rory McIlroy Swing Sequence   
 
   Chi Power Golf   
 
   In Sync - Get a chain reaction   
 



















 
 
 

 
 
  International News 
 What's happening at courses and resorts around the world. 
  
  Golf Union & Club News   
News and information from  National & County Unions & Golf Clubs. 
  
  Algarve Trophy   
Players from Europe compete in the 1st Final
    
 
 

 
 
 
      Half Price Golf!   
Play golf at over 1400 courses in the UK and Ireland for half price, and save up to 50% at over 600 courses around the world with our discount schemes. 
  
 
     Winter Golf Breaks   
Find your ideal golf break in the UK & Ireland, Europe, or somewhere more exotic. Prices start at just £69, so beat the gloom with some winter golf!  
  
 
      Score Tracker   
Handicap and Score Tracker gives you a quick and easy way to track your rounds, analyse your game and record your handicap - all online. And it's free!  
 
 


 
 
  Book Tee Times   
In partnership with the UK's leading online teebooking specialist, we now offer over 250 courses where you can book a time and save up to 75% on green fees! 
  
  Course Directory   
The world's most comprehensive and up to date guide to over 15,000 golf courses, including those which accept our popular green fee discount schemes.  
 
  
  
 
   LATEST AMATEUR NEWS   
 

  France lays down challenge to UK golfers at Golf du Medoc    
 
  Ireland to host European Amateur Championship in 2012   
 
  Leaderboard Golf wraps up Christmas    
 
  Overwhelming support for EGU and EWGA merger   
 
  R&A rule changes aid "hole in one" prizes   
 
  Will they -Won't they - merge?    
 
  Hassle free Festive Breaks at Dartmouth   
 


  Club news from around the country   
 
 


      

 
 
 
 AMATEUR GOLF FEATURES   
 
  Huge savings on Festive gift ideas!   
 
  Calendar of Events, Charity Days, Pro-Ams...   
 
  Directory of Worldwide Golf Unions & Associations   
 
  News from Golf Clubs all around the country   
 
  Analyse your game and improve your scores   
 
  A Golfing A to Z   
 
 
 
 
  Charity Golf Days    
Our calendar, plus news of people and events raising money for good causes through golf.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Four Nations  
Matchplay event offers 'Ryder Cup' for club golfers. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Club News   
What's happening in clubs all around the country. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Nat'l County Card   
Golf Clubs - promote yourselves free of charge in 2009! 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golfing A-Z   
Stableford? Condor? Hole in One records? You'll find it all here. 
  
    
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us