Womens Golf Performance Program For Women Golfers 
 

 

   


 
    
    
          
        

 
		    	  
	 
		
  
    
  Fit Golf For Women Home  	
   				|  Why Join  |  Womens Golf Articles  	
   				|  Fitness For Golf  |  Free Golf Fitness Ebook  	
   				|  JOIN NOW  |
 Member Area 
		 
		 
	 
	 
   
 
		 
    
	

      
	 
	
    
			       
"I love the websight! I knew  that physical excercise specific to golf had to be part of my routine and I'm so glad I came across your womens golf program. Im sure this will help me to have better and faster results." 
 
--Alicia Miller

 
 
"Many of my friends, family and co-workers have noticed not only that I have lost weight (more than 20 lbs.), but that I am very toned and shapely.  ."
 
--Mary Ann Stephenson
 
 
"My drives went from 150 yards in the beginning before the program and now I can say that I am at 175 to 185 because of the strength I have gained with the program.  
 
 
I think it is truly worth the cost and I know that I will be a repeat member!"
--Marilyn Papke
 
 
"I have been in your program for nearly two years.  I have seen my handicap go from around a 2 index to a + 0.5.  I have gained a few extra yards with my irons and my woods, but most of all I am stronger and my back has held up fairly well during the golf seasons. I have more energy during the latter part of the rounds and my legs are noticably stronger for those long match play events.  I would rule my investment with your program a success.  This season I was very solid and I think I will be the player of the year for women in the state of Wisconsin. I use all areas of your site and links help improve my game.   Thanks for helping me take my game to the next level!"
 
--Syd Moore 
 
       			
			  			
			    
				
	
				

		

 
		 
		 
			  

	
   Here's How To Play Better Look Great... Have More Fun And Feel Confident On The Golf Course  
			       
   

  With simple, quick and easy golf performance swing tips, drills, exercises and programs that will instill confidence through achieving a higher level of golf skills.  

  Gain immediate access to the Fit Golf For Women's private website. Where you will...
 
 Improve your golf swing consistency. 
 Add up to 40 yards to your tee shots. 
 Achieve respectable scores more often. 
 Thoroughly increase your enjoyment of the game. 
 
 

  All this...plus unlimited personalized woman's golf support 24/7 
  (For More Information About Membership - Click Here) .     If you want to  cure golf slice , be sure to check this site often. 

Womens Golf Articles: 
 Personalized Golf Balls For A Gift  
 Golf Bracelets For Women  
 Womens Golf Gift  
 Lady Ping Golf Clubs  
 Lady Footjoy Golf Shoes  
 Beginner Golf Instruction For Lady Golfers  
 Finding A Lady Golf Gift  
 Precept Lady Diamond Golf Ball  
 Ladies Cobra Golf Clubs  
 Golf Sandal for Women  
 Women's Golf Attire: Knowing What's Out There  
 A Complete Golf Guide to Womens Golf  
 The Women's Golf Shop: Knowing Before You Buy  
 Womens Golf Myrtle Beach  
Even More Information For Women Golfers: 
 Know What Women's Golf Magazines Are Out There Before You Decide On One  
 Which Nike Women's Golf Shoes Are Right For You?  
 Why You Will Love Women's Ecco Golf Shoes  
 What Women's Golf Accessory is Actually Useful?  
 Adidas Women Golf Shoes and Why They May be Right for You  
 Womens Golf Gloves  
 Womens Golf Set  
 Women's Golf Schools  

 And yet...still even more... 
 Left Handed Golf
Clubs For Women  
 Discount Women's Golf Apparel  
 Do You Need A New Women's Golf Club Set?  
 Expensive Women's Golf Apparel  
 Golf School for Women  
 Women's Golf Clothing in a Plus Size  
 I wanted everyone to make sure you know there exists an excellent golf fitness site dedicated to improving your game with easy to do  golf exercises  that anyone can do. 
 
       
     
       
         
         ENJOY Golf...Grab Your FREE "Fit To A Tee For Womens Golf" Ebook Right Now! 
       
       
         
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 First Name: 
 
 
 
 
Enter your name and e-mail address in the boxes below and I'll e-mail you my FREE ebook, "Fit To A Tee For Womens Golf!" . 
 
 Email Address: 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
(We respect your privacy, and will not share your information with anyone)
 

  
       
     
       
     
      


Ê
 

  
  



  
   
      
       
          Get Mike 
          Pedersen's FREE 
          "Fit Golf For Women's" 
          Weekly Golf Fitness Tip 
            
            Signup below and receive immediate access to Mike's ebook "Fit 
            To A Tee For Womens Golf"  
           
         
          
           
              
                
                 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                     First 
                    Name: 
                     
                     
                    Email: 
                     
                     
                     
                     
                    We never share your info, and you can unsubscribe at any time.
 
                 
               
             
           
           
            
           
       
         
         
       
     
   
 
   
   
			
		    
		
    
			  			
		 

	  
		 
 
 		 
		 	
		  Fit Golf For Women Home  
 |   Search  		   
	 |  Womens Golf Articles  
			
   			 |  Best Golf Driver Reviews  
			
   			 |  Best Golf Iron Reviews  
			
   			 |  Best Golf Resort Reviews  
			
   			 |  Golf Articles  
			
   			 |  Golf Bag Reviews  
			
   			 |  Golf Ball Reviews  
			
   			 |  Golf Exercise Program  
			
   			 |  Golf Fitness Book  
			
   			 |  Golf Fitness Plan  
			
   			 |  Golf Fitness Products  
			
   			 |  Golf Fitness Tips  
			
   			 |  Golf Fitness-Power Golf  
			
   			 |  Golf For Women Affiliate  
			
   			 |  Golf Instruction  
		   
	 |  Golf Resources  
			
   			 |  Golf Swing Training Aid  
			
   			 |  Hybrid Golf Club Reviews  
			
   			 |  Improve Golf Game  
			
   			 |  Mike Pedersen Golf Blog  
			
   			 |  Mike Pedersen Golf Video  
			
   			 |  Golf For Women Products  
		   
	 |  Contact Us  
  
		
		•À? 2004 Fit Golf For Women, Inc.  28248 N. Tatum Blvd Suite B-1 #155 Cave Creek, AZ  85331 (480)575-1080  All Rights Reserved. Reproduction without permission prohibited.
		 Ê