Golf for Women - The Complete Guide to Rules, Etiquette, Equipment and Play 

 
 
 

 
   

  



  
 


 

 
 
  
 

 
 
 





  
   

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


 

 
 

 
 
 
 The Basics of Golf for Women 
 
 I am crazy about golf!It is after all a woman?s game. The basics of golf for women will prove it to you.  So what is keeping YOU off the course?  Most women feel like they need to be excellent golfers before they can go out for a round. Being watched by others while you try to hit a tiny white ball can be pretty intimidating. The good news is that knowing what to do and how to behave is more important than how well you play.  The basics of golf for women will tell you everything you need to know to let you step out on the course with confidence, regardless of your level of play.    Hi and welcome,  My name is Nora and I?m looking forward to seeing you out on the golf course. I don?t come from a long line of golfers and I?m not a professional. As a matter of fact, I didn?t take up the game until I was 32.   From the start I was thrown off the deep end. As one of only a few women at a male-dominated course in Saudi Arabia, the pressure was on right away to both learn the rules and improve my game.   Golf-Basics-for-Women wants to make your first steps easier, so you don?t have to feel intimidated.  With the knowledge of golf for women you?ll pick up here you?ll be able to  Join your friends for that charity tournament they?ve been bugging you about;  Be part of the next company outing to that super-dooper resort course;  Finally go out for a round with your husband/partner and do more than just drive the cart!   We will provide you with all the basic information you need:   The rules or how to play  Etiquette or the do?s and don?ts  Equipment or what you need to play  Instruction or how to get better at playing  Courses or where to play  But most of all, we want to show you that women's golf is FUN!  Because this site is meant for you, we want to hear from you! We are looking forward to your input and questions.  Enjoy the journey!
 
 
 

 
 
	  
                   
 
     
         
              
             Copyright ? 2011 Golf-Basics-For-Women.com. All Rights Reserved. 
            
             
      
    
     
     
            SBI!