Scottish Ladies Golf Association - Home 
 
 
 
 
	 
	 
 
 
 
 
   
      
       
          
            
       
     
       
         
             
         
         
             
         
       
       
         
           
		     
 

   
     
    	 
		
	
	
	 
		 
				 
				                			 
							 
					 
										Search					 
				 
							 
				 
				
 

 	
  

 
 				 
			 
			 
						 
							 
					 
										Main Menu					 
				 
							 
				 
				
 
   Home   
   About Us   
   Officials   
   Fixtures   
   Live Scoring   
   Selection   
   Sponsors   
   Subscriptions   
   Golf Central   
   Latest News   
   Entry Forms   
   Teams   
   Results   
   Meet The Players   
   Championships   
   Girls Order of Merit   
   Ladies Order of Merit   
   Contact Us   
   Links   
   Rules & Regulations   
   Course Rating   
   Equity   
   Handicap   
 				 
			 
			 
						 
							 
					 
					    Scottish Ladies' Golfing Association Limited  Registered Office:  The Den 2 Dundee Road Perth PH2 7DW  Place of Registration: Scotland  Company No: 308709  Tel No: 01738 442357       					 
				 
						 
						
                				 		 

		 
		 
			 

					 
									   
			  	 
				  
				
     Latest News 
 
	 
	 
	Amalgamation Update - the latest	 
	 
		 
	 
	Adverse Weather	 
	 
		 
	 
	The Equality Act - latest	 
	 
		 
	 
	Distance Measuring Devices	 
	 
		 
	 
	2011 Calendar of Events	 
	 
	 

    
				 
				 			   
						 
					 
			         			 
			 
								 
				Autumn Mailing								 
							 
			 
			
		 
				 
			 
			 The autumn mailing to clubs was posted on 16 November.  It contains a  letter  from the Chairman, Shona Malcolm, a conditions of competition  checklist , the  mailing update form  and the  2012 subscription form .  Seminars on handicapping and the Rules of Golf will be held between 6 December 2011 and 19 January 2012 at locations round the country. An invitation and booking form, for a maximum of 4 attendees per club (ladies and men), are also in the pack. 			 
		 
				 
		    			 
			 
								 
				Louise Sweeps to Victory								 
							 
			 
			
		 
				 
			 
			 Louise Kenney (Pitreavie), who won her first Scottish Ladies' Championship at Machrihanish in May, has regained the Scottish Ladies' Golfing Association's Order of Merit title.   2011 Ladies Order of Merit Winner, Louise Kenney with the Scottish Ladies' Championship Trophy  The primary school teacher had a terrific season.  In addition to the National title, she also won the East of Scotland and Fife County Championships and finished third at the Helen Holm Scottish Open Strokeplay Championship at Troon.  She also made her Great Britain and Ireland debut in the Vagliano Trophy match against the Continent of Europe in Wales in June - and now has her sights set on next year's Curtis Cup at Nairn.  Kenney won the Order of Merit title for a first time in 2009 and, this year, she amassed 2,375 points to finish comfortably ahead of second placed Pamela Pretswell (Bothwell Castle).  Pretswell, who missed several events because of university commitments, still gained 1,800 points in what could be her final amateur season.  She has entered the Ladies' European Tour qualifying school early next year.  Eilidh Briggs (Kilmacolm), who retained the SLGA's Girls' Order of Merit title, finished third on the senior list with 1,647 points.  The teenager finished runner-up to Kenney in the Scottish Ladies' Championship and made her senior team debut at September's Home Internationals.  Kelsey MacDonald (Nairn Dunbar), who highlighted her season with a record fourth straight win in the Scottish Junior Open Strokeplay Championship, was defending the Order of Merit title but slipped to eighth with 1,053 points.   LADIES ORDER OF MERIT - FINAL POSITIONS    LADIES ORDER OF MERIT - POINTS BREAKDOWN     			 
		 
				 
		    			 
			 
								 
				Victory for Connie in Junior Finale								 
							 
			 
			
		 
				 
			 
			 Connie Jaffrey of Troon Portland brought down the curtain on her season in style with victory at the Junior Champion of Champions over The Duke's Course, St Andrews, on Sunday (23 October).  Connie shot 72 - one over par - to pip playing partner Clara Young of North Berwick by a single stroke, with Jessica Meek (Carnoustie Ladies) and Eilidh Watson (Muckhart) next best after 74s.  Jessica took third alone with a better inward half of 37.   Connie Jaffrey, Troon Ladies  Despite clam conditions and the forecast rain failing to arrive, the par-71 lay-out played long and challenging.  Connie and Clara were nip and tuck throughout their dual.  But the turning point came at the 14th when Clara lost a ball after a poor tee shot to drop two shots.  The 15-year-old's, both members of the SLGA training squads for 2011-12 and playing off two handicaps, rounded off their seasons with their efforts.  Connie said, "It was a good game between myself and Clara, it was always going to be quite close.  It was tough to score so I'm delighted to win.  My handicap was five at the start of the year, I got down to one and then back up to two, so it's been a good year."  Clara can also look back on 2011 with fondness after representing Scotland in the Girls Home Internationals and Girls European Team Championships, and playing for Great Britain & Ireland in the Junior Vagliano Trophy.  Final results can be accessed by  clicking here .  Thanks to the SGU for photographs and report.    			 
		 
				 
		    			 
			 
								 
				SLGA Training Squads 2011-2012								 
							 
			 
			
		 
				 
			 
			 National Training Squad  Lesley Atkins, Eilidh Briggs, Connie Jaffrey, Alyson McKechin, Jessica Meek, Ailsa Summers, Rachel Walker, Lauren Whyte, Clara Young  Independent Performance Squad  Louise Kenney, Kelsey MacDonald, Pamela Pretswell  Tournament Pool  Megan Briggs, Gemma Dryburgh (USA), Jane Turner, Rachael Watton (USA)  SLGA Prospects Squad  Sophie Bain, Kimberley Beveridge, Kirsty Brodie, Eilidh Crawford, Jillian Farrell, Mirren Fraser, Emma Hale, Hazel MacGarvie, Sophie Maguire, Shannon McWilliam, Claire Robertson 			 
		 
				 
		    			 
			 
								 
				Eilidh Retains Girls' Title								 
							 
			 
			
		 
				 
			 
			 Eilidh Briggs (Kilmacolm) has completed a great season and ended her junior career in style by winning the Scottish Ladies' Golfing Association's Girls' Order of Merit title for the third year in a row.   Eilidh Briggs, Kilmacolm  Runner-up in the Scottish Ladies' Amateur Championship at the start of the season, Eilidh won the Scottish Girls' Championship at Glenisla Golf Club in July.  She also won the Renfrewshire County and West of Scotland titles and made her Scottish team senior debut at the Home Internationals at Hillside in September.  "It has been a great season and making the Home Internationals was a huge goal this year," said Eilidh. "In the foursomes, I had the chance to play alongside my sister (Megan) which was great."  Eilidh has just taken up a golf scholarship at Stirling University, following in the footsteps of Scotland's most successful female golfer, Catriona Matthew.  Eilidh won the Order of Merit with 1,941 points and was closely followed by Rachel Walker (Dumfries & County), who finished second with 1,813 points.  Jessica Meek (Carnoustie) was third with 1,683 points and Connie Jaffrey (Troon Ladies) was fourth with 1,550 points.                     Rachel Walker (Left) and Jessica Meek (Right) will both have one more chance to top the Girls Order of Merit in 2012  Clara Young (North Berwick), the 14-year-old who played for Great Britain and Ireland in the Junior Vagliano Trophy, finished a very creditable eighth and will be a name to watch in the girls' events in 2012.   GIRLS ORDER OF MERIT    GIRLS ORDER OF MERIT - POINTS BREAKDOWN     			 
		 
				 
		        			 
			
			More...			
			 
			 
						 
			 
			Junior Champion of Champions 2011			 
			 
						 
			 
			Eilidh wins Champion of Champions Title			 
			 
						 
			 
			2012 Fixture List			 
			 
					 
		     << Start < Previous 1  2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   Next >   End >>       
			   
			 
			   
			 
			 
		 		 
		 
		   	 
	
	
	 
	 
   
 
   
		   
         
       
       
         
             Website by Broxden   
            © 2006 Scottish Ladies' Golfing Association - All Rights Reserved