The Best Science Books, Ever : Page 3.14 

     
     

 
 

  




  

  

 

 
 
 
 

 





 

  
  
  

  




 

 

 

	 Now on ScienceBlogs: 



 Biotechnology Education - what's happening folks? 

							

							

							

							



							

							

							



							



							



							

							



							

							

							

							

							



							

							



							



							

							



							



							

							

							

							



							



							

							



							

							

							

							



							



							



							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							



							



							

							

							

							

							



							

							

							



							

							

							

							

							



							

							

							

							

							

							



							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							



							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							

							



							

							

							

							

							



							



							



							



							

							
 
	
	
	
 
 

	 
	
		 
		
		

 
 
  
 
 
 
	 
	 
 
 


		 
		
		 

  

 






	
	 

	 	 
		  Last 24 Hrs  
		  Life Science  
		  Physical Science  
		  Environment  
		  Humanities  
		  Education  
		  Politics  
		  Medicine  
		  Brain & Behavior  
		  Technology  
		  Information Science  
		  Jobs  
	  

 

	 
	
		 		
 
			
  Page 3.14  
				
 Marrying the line to the curve. 
				
 


			
 		
 
  Latest Posts  
  Archives  
  About  
  RSS  
  Contact  
 		
 
			
 
		
 

 Profile 
			
 


Maintained by the ScienceBlogs Overlords, Page 3.14 points you in the direction of some of ScienceBlogs' finest offerings, plus the tastiest tidbits of science news and opinion from around the web. 

 



 Search 
			
 
  
 
  
 

 Overlord Brain Food 

 

  Ars Technica  
  Boing Boing  
  Danger Room  
  Engadget  
  Gadget Lab  
  Game|Life  
  explodingdog  
  Geekologie  
  Gizmodo  
  io9  
  Life Hacker  
  Nothing's Shocking  
  Real Climate  
  Secret Science Club  
  Slashdot  
  Tech Crunch  
  The Kicker  
  The Observatory  
  The Presurfer  
  The XX Factor  
  Threat Level  
  Valleywag  
  Web Monkey  
  Wired Science  
  xkcd  


 



 Recent Posts  

 
  Nobel Winners Announced  
  Popular Anti-Science  
  Leaving Light in the Dust?  
  Past and Future Forecasts  
  Hungry, Hot & Crowded  
  Kepler Doubles its Prospects  
  Cortical Hardware and Software  
  Anticlimactic Research  
  Too Much; Not Enough  
  Feats of Engineering  

 






 Recent Comments 
 


  essay writing services  on   Announcing: ScienceBlogs and National Geographic  







 Cathey Sojo on   An Interview with Carl Zimmer of The Loom  







  Caso Genitivo  on   An Interview with Carl Zimmer of The Loom  







 Gino Cormican on   An Interview with Carl Zimmer of The Loom  







  Klimt Paintings  on   An Interview with Carl Zimmer of The Loom  







  CANDICE30Kent  on   "There's No Crying in Science": Two Bloggers Talk Popper  







  Keesha Golonka  on   ScienceBlogs Under Attack by Zombies  







  watch cameras online  on   An Interview with Carl Zimmer of The Loom  







  Knightly  on   Popular Anti-Science  







 Jason on   Popular Anti-Science  

 





 Archives 
			

 
  November 2011  



  October 2011  



  September 2011  



  August 2011  



  July 2011  



  June 2011  



  May 2011  



  April 2011  



  March 2011  



  February 2011  



  September 2010  



  August 2010  



  July 2010  



  June 2010  



  May 2010  



  April 2010  



  March 2010  



  February 2010  



  January 2010  



  December 2009  



  November 2009  



  October 2009  



  September 2009  



  August 2009  



  July 2009  



  June 2009  



  May 2009  



  April 2009  



  March 2009  



  February 2009  



  January 2009  



  December 2008  



  November 2008  



  October 2008  



  September 2008  



  August 2008  



  July 2008  



  June 2008  



  May 2008  



  April 2008  



  March 2008  



  February 2008  



  January 2008  



  December 2007  



  November 2007  



  October 2007  



  September 2007  



  August 2007  



  July 2007  



  June 2007  



  May 2007  



  April 2007  



  March 2007  



  February 2007  



  January 2007  



  December 2006  



  November 2006  



  October 2006  



  September 2006  



  August 2006  



  July 2006  



  June 2006  



  May 2006  



  April 2006  



  March 2006  
 


 Other Good Stuff 

 
 MEMBER, ORDER OF THE SCIENCE SCOUTS OF EXEMPLARY REPUTE AND ABOVE AVERAGE PHYSIQUE 
    
  

 Add ScienceBlogs to your Technorati favorites:
  
  
   


 

 		
 

 
 « Check Out the New Seed Blog  |
 Main 
|  Seed Magazine Nonfiction Writing Contest » 
 

  The Best Science Books, Ever  

 
Category:  Readings  
Posted on: April  4, 2006 11:50 AM, by  Book Club 
 

 

 I'm between  books right now. As an inveterate reader, this makes me feel antsy and unmoored. I want to get my hands on something good--and specifically, I'm thinking of going on a science-book spree.  

 The science-books-for-laypeople genre is one that I haven't explored as much as I would like. (Bloggers--any recommendations? Can we put together an ultimate science book list, a science-reader's garden of prose?) 

 Partly, this interest is sparked by recent days spent in the Seed offices. And partly it's sparked by one recent discovery of mine, a book that dazzled me with a vision of what science writing can be in the hands of an author who also has a gift for prose. The book was A Country Year, by Sue Hubbell, and I'd like to nominate it as the first entry on our science-writing honor roll.  

  I stumbled across Hubbell's book the last time I visited my parents in the Blue Ridge mountains of Virginia. Book-less and jonesing for a fix, I retreated to their shelf of field guides, carpentry manuals and gardening books, and pulled down the likeliest-looking thing. The hazy watercolor landscape on the cover didn't exactly fill me with positive expectations. But pickings were slim, so I plopped down in front of the stove and started to read.  

  

 A Country Year came out in 1983. Hubbell gives the back-story to her unusual life in the book's first pages. She married young and worked at the Brown University library. When her academic husband tired of university life, the two of them chased the dream  of '60s and '70s back-to-the-landers, and bought a small farm in the Ozarks of Missouri, a place Hubbell describes as being "so beautiful that it nearly brought tears to my eyes the first time I saw it." They renovated a cabin on their land and started a small business keeping bees and selling honey. The marriage ended soon after, and Hubbell decided to keep the farm and the apiary, alone. At the time of writing, she was fifty years old, making her living by driving her bees' honey to New York City in a truck and selling it to specialty stores like Macy's and Zabar's. On the side she did nature writing for a little rag called The New Yorker.  

 A Country Year collects some of her essays on life in the Ozarks. In them, the deadly-smart Hubbell blends glimpses into her strenuous life with observations of the natural world around her. She does it seamlessly, in spare, precise sentences and crisp details. Her essays are short, and they give the illusion of being haphazard--starting out on one subject and ending on quite another. They're not.  

 I like Hubbell, I think, because she shows how scientific knowledge can enrich one's everyday life. In one essay she describes how she turned to botany after her husband left the farm. "I botanized obsessively during that difficult time," she says, traversing her land and teaching herself the Latin names of the plants that grow there. Learning the taxonomic names of plants allowed a more intimate connection to place. "One spring afternoon," she writes, during her botanizing phase, "I was walking back down my lane after getting the mail... The sun was slanting through new leaves, and the air was fragrant with wild cherry (Prunus serotina: Prunus--plum, serotina--late blooming) blosssoms, which my bees were working eagerly." For Hubbell, knowing more about science means knowing more about the world at hand. Knowing more about the world means living a richer life. Science is a way of seeing, and seen through the lens of science, the world means more, is more amazing.  

 In Hubbell's writing, scientific understanding begets awe, instead of undermining it. Take for example one of my favorite essays, in which Hubbell writes about her early morning ritual of drinking coffee under the oak trees behind her cabin. In the gray dawn, mosquitoes and moths swarm around her. The insects attract bats, which rely on them as food. Hubbell thinks about the relationship between herself, the mosquitoes, and the bats, and then she thinks of a further rumple in bat-moth relations. Some night-flying moths, she relates, have evolved the ability to hear the noises that bats use while hunting, and to make noises back that instruct the bats not to eat them. The moths rely for survival on their sense of hearing. But there is a species of mite that lives in moths' ears, causing deafness. And moth ear mites, naturally, depend for their survival on the survival of moths. So the mites have evolved a way, not fully understood, by which the first mite to land on a moth leaves a signal that alerts subsequent mites to settle only in one ear of any given moth. The mites have a place to live, while the moths retain hearing in one ear. "So there we are out under the oak trees in the dim light," writes Hubbell, "--the mites, the moths, the bats, the mosquitoes, and me. We are a text of suitability for one another, and that text is as good as any I know by which to drink my coffee and watch the dawn." 

 A Country Year made me want to know my daily world the way that Hubbell knows hers.  

 What work of science writing got you going?   

 

  
 
	 
		 
			  
		 
	 							
	              
		 
			  
		 
		 
			  
			  
		 
		 
			  
		 
		 
			  
		 
		 
			  
		 
	  
 




 
  
 




 

 TrackBacks 
 TrackBack URL for this entry: http://scienceblogs.com/mt/pings/4177 

 

 

 



 
 

 Comments 
  
 
 

1

 Let's just get the obvious out of the way: Rachel Carson's Silent Spring.  

 First of all, Carson was a breathtaking writer. One of the few science writers who can truly claim the mantle of literature. Excerpts from The Sea Around Us or The Edge of the Sea regularly appear in collegiate readers based solely on the beauty of her prose.  

 While Silent Spring has no shortage of statistics or polysyllabic organic molecule nomenclature, nonetheless much of the prose is sublime and vigorous. The fifty-year-old research in Silent Spring is often dated, but I still go back to Carson when I need a reminder of how beautiful science writing can be. 

 Second, Silent Spring has raw political and historical power. This is a book that changed the world. Gould's The Panda's Thumb inspires the anti-science crowd to spew unmitigated baloney while smiling their little condescending smiles, but Silent Spring reduces them to sputtering, inchoate rage. And how cool is that? 

 (BTW: The Wikipedia article is not that bad 

 Posted by:  HP     |  April  4, 2006  1:05 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

2

 John McPhee. Basin and Range. 

 "If by some fiat I had to restrict all this writing to one sentence, this is the one I would choose: The summit of Mt. Everest is marine limestone." 

 Posted by: NJ  |  April  4, 2006  1:41 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

3

 There are so many great ones but I recommend Endless Forms Most Beautiful (on Evo-Devo) by Sean B. Carroll.  Well written and evo-devo is sucha wonderful way to better understand evolution.  And of course everyone should read The Origin of Species by Darwin. 

 Posted by: CanuckRob  |  April  4, 2006  2:24 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

4

 OK this is cliche, but Judson's Eigth Day of Creation is a must read for anyone who is in the life sciences. The first part is on DNA (inheritance), the second is on a chapter on RNA (the genetic code) and the third is on proteins (x-ray crystalography). 

 Posted by:  apalazzo     |  April  4, 2006  3:37 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

5

 1. David Quammen, The Song of the Dodo 
2. Quammen's other stuff 
3. McPhee, all of it 
4. Carl Zimmer, anything. 

 Posted by: CCP  |  April  4, 2006  3:53 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

6

 Who are "laypeople"? I don't have a grasp at who the target audience of readers of science books are. My favorite science books from way back are: 

 From the 60's and 70's: 
(Several books) Isaac Asimov's science essay compilations 
Isaac Asimov's Guide to Science 

 These are outdated somewhat but great writing that informed and made me interested when I was young. The particular essay from the early 60's where Asimov discusses how he would react to someone giving him iron oxide, titanium (I think) oxide and Thallium oxide is the best description of the extraordinary claims need extraordinary evidence point. 

 Current best broad based Science book (last 5 years): 
A Short History of Nearly Everything by Bill Bryson 
This I have given to several people from elemtary school teachers to Physicians and they all liked it. This is the new version of Asimov's Guide to Science. 

 A good book that gives a great overview of a specific science: 
Earth by Richard Fortey 
This book can get overwhelming with all the jargon, not that the author dumps it on you, but the subject is so vast you can't avoid it, and the book is well written. It really opened my eyes to Geology and the ongoing simmering and up and downs of the planet. Taking a geologic time perspective stretches your mind. 

 Life Evolving by Christian de Duve  
is an interesting book that gives some perspective to biogenesis. It argues a case more than giving conclusions, but still is very good. 

 There are no current physics books that strike me, I think Robert Laughlin should take his book of essays and expand it becuse that is where the action seems to be currently. I think we need to wait til the CERN high energy collider turns on to maybe shake up High Energy Physics which seems like has lost its way in "beautiful" math that can't calculate anything. That is kind of an off effect of Supercollider cancellation way back in the 90's - we see High Energy Physics is really driven by experiment. 

 Posted by: Markk  |  April  4, 2006  4:09 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

7

 We had a thread about this on Cosmic Variance some time back: 

  http://cosmicvariance.com/2005/08/24/greatest-popular-science-book/  

 No conclusions, but many good suggestions. 

 Posted by:  Sean Carroll     |  April  4, 2006  4:28 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

8

 Oops, I meant to delete that aborted half-sentence at the end. The Wikipedia article was not that good, either, on a second reading. 

 Posted by:  HP     |  April  4, 2006  4:57 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

9

 These are going to date me but I believe they shouldn't be missed on such a list: 
Rats, Lice & History, by Hans Zinsser   
Flatland, a romance of many dimensions 
Advance of the Fungi, by E. C. Large 

 and more recently: 
The ancestor's tale : a pilgrimage to the dawn of evolution, by Richard Dawkins. 

 Posted by:  Ruth Lewis     |  April  4, 2006  5:44 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

10

 Everyone Poops  
by Taro Gomi 

 Posted by:  Matt Hutson     |  April  4, 2006  7:37 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

11

 For laymen? All-around, Science Matters is a book I give anyone with any inclination towards science but without the training to do. 

 The Ancestor's Tale is good, but lack the 'magic' (for me) of The Blind Watchmaker. I really liked A Crack at the Edge of the World and Lonely Planets, but your mileage with those books may vary.  

 The Earth: An Intimate Portrait has its moments (I *loved* the chapter on Plate Tectonics), but it can get kind of.. dull, as well. 

 Posted by:  Babbler     |  April  4, 2006  7:40 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

12

 Stephan Gould's "Wonderful Life". 

 Posted by: sailcat46  |  April  4, 2006  9:09 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

13

 I'll second Blind Watchmaker, Silent Spring and Red Queen as they got me so interested in biology, ecology and evolution that I'm going back to Uni to study Environmental Science and completely change career. 

 Would also add Brian Greene's The Elegant Universe and James Gleick's Chaos. Both really recharged my thirst for knowledge and discovery while making my head hurt in the most pleasant of ways :-) 

 Posted by: Lazarou  |  April  5, 2006  9:57 AM  

 
 


  
 
 

14

 The Aventis Prize Archives  http://www.aventisprizes.com  looks like a nice source of good popular science writing. "Aventis Prizes for Science Books are an annual book prize, which celebrate the very best in popular science writing for adults and children."  Nominees and winners 2002-2005 are available.  Nominees for 2006 are posted also. 
 

 Posted by:  Ruth Lewis     |  April  5, 2006 10:13 AM  

 
 


  
 
 

15

 I have to agree with Eigth Day of Creation - a total history of Molecular Biology, and James Gleick's Chaos. 

 As for the Dawkins Books, I think that the Selfish Gene was much better than the Blind Watchmaker. While reading TSG, I kept on saying "wow, I wish I came up with that". 

 Posted by: Acme Scientist  |  April  5, 2006 12:31 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

16

 De Rerum Natura (aka - On the Nature of Things) by Lucretius. 

 Posted by:  Lee Billings     |  April  5, 2006  3:02 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

17

 Great books on this list. 

 In terms of literary merit applied to scientific observation, I would strongly recommend Annie Dillard, especially _Pilgram at Tinker Creek_ (a classic) and _For the Time Being_ (beautiful).  

 Also, a bit older but prescient and powerful is _The Immense Journey_ by Loren Eisely. 

 The above books are as good as anything I've read during my undergraduate degree in literature and my doctorate in biochemistry. 

 Posted by: madsci  |  April  6, 2006  1:25 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

18

 Great Books: 

 Steven Johnson's "Mind Wide Open" 
Nancy Andreasen's "Brave New Brain" 
V.S. Ramachandran's "Phantom's in the Brain" 
Steven Pinker's "Blank Slate" 

 Or if you feel like reading a neuroscience/psychology blog geared at lay people, you might check mine: 

 Neurontic: Psychology for the Modern Mind 
 http://journalism.nyu.edu/pubzone/annotate  

 Posted by: Orli  |  April  6, 2006  6:00 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

19

 The Whole Shebang by Timothy Ferris and John Gribbin's Almost Everyone's Guide to Science are good intro books 

 Posted by: paultullis  |  April  7, 2006 10:18 AM  

 
 


  
 
 

20

 Daniel Dennett, [i]Consciousness Explained[/i] - even though the title rather overstates the case.  [i]Consciousness Explainable[/i] might be more accurate.  He argues that a materialistic explanation of consciousness is possible and provides a number of initial steps in that direction. 

 Charles Seife, [i]Alpha and Omega: The Search for the Beginning and End of the Universe[/i] really does a good job of making modern cosmology and particle physics, and how the two inform each other, accessible. 

 Posted by: Qoheleth  |  April  7, 2006 12:05 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

21

 The Five Ages of the Universe by Adams and Laughlin is a lot of fun.  Extrapolation of what the Universe will look like billions of billions of time its current age, based on our best current understanding of Physics.  Only a little bit dated (because it was written when we didn't know about the present acceleration of the Universe's expansion). 

 Posted by:  Rob Knop     |  April  7, 2006 12:28 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

22

 Doh! HTML tags, not BBCode. 

 Posted by: Qoheleth  |  April  7, 2006  1:54 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

23

 John Horgan's "Rational Mysticism" is a masterul treatment of altered states of consciousness and their manifold implications that walks the razor's edge between distanced objectivity and informed experience. 

 In his interviews with neuroscientists and new-age gurus, he asks deliciously incisive, challenging questions, and the autobiographical musings he includes are revealingly candid and sharply relevant, like when he describes tripping his balls off on ayahuasca in the desert. 

 It's a good read. 

 Posted by:  Lee Billings     |  April  7, 2006  3:21 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

24

 Old books, but still good - I won't call them the best ever, but they're still worth reading. 

 George Gamow - One,Two, Three,...Infinity, Birth and Death of the Sun, Biography of the Earth. 

 Paul de Kruif - Microbe Hunters 

 Vicent Dethier - To know a fly 

 Hoftstader's Godel, Escher, Bach 

 There were some more on the tip of my tongue, but all this typekey registration blah,blah drove them out of my mind. 
 

 Posted by:  Arun     |  April  8, 2006 11:37 AM  

 
 


  
 
 

25

 A batch of oldies that are still goodies. 

 I'll second Ruth's nomination of Hans Zinsser's Rats, Lice and History, probably the most influential book in getting me involved in microbiology/medical science. It's primarily a "biography" of typhus, with many amusing and interesting diversions along the way. 

 I'll also second Arun's naming of de Kruif's Microbe Hunters, and then add in a couple more oldies: 

 Berton Roueche's Eleven Blue Men and his other highly literate forays into explaining all aspects of epidemiology to the layman. 

 Jurgen Thorwald's Century of the Surgeon, which covers much in 19th century medicine besides just surgery.  

 Posted by:  chezjake     |  April  9, 2006 12:03 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

26

 The Compleat Strategyst: Being a Primer on the Theory of Games of Strategy, by J. D. Williams. 

 Game theory for everyone; understanding requires no more than simple arithmetic. 

 Posted by: marxmarv  |  April 12, 2006  2:17 PM  

 
 


  
 
 

27

 if we're discussing "science writers who can truly claim the mantle of literature," then i'll add Lewis Thomas (Lives of a Cell, The Medusa and the Snail), Primo Levi (The Periodic Table, Other People's Trades), and Miroslav Holub (Shedding Life, any collection of his poems) to the list.  

 I'll second Loren Eisely (The Invisible Pyramid), Annie Dillard (Pilgrim at Tinker Creek), and Rachel Carson (all).  

 i hesitate on the Zimmer books though; they're all very clear, have good stories in them about scientists and their discoveries, and the author himself does a good job at clarifying complexity, but i don't think i (or others) would try and make the case that the books "claim the mantle of literature." perhaps it is an unnecessary divide to some, but pop. science books and works of literature do have differences--the former places emphasis on education and communicative clarity, the latter on that which we call art and beauty in prose. don't get me wrong; i appreciate Zimmer's work as a journalist, it just isn't literary journalism ala John McPhee, Ryszard Kapuscinski, or George Orwell. 

 Posted by:  dbeck   |  July 24, 2011  9:44 PM  

 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 Post a Comment 


 (Email is required for authentication purposes only. On some blogs, comments are moderated for spam, so your comment may not appear immediately.) 

 

  

 
 
 
 Name:  
 
 
 
 Email Address:  
 
 
 

 
 URL:  
 
 

 
 Comments: (you may use simple HTML tags for style)  
  
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  




 


	
 

 

 
 

	 
	
		  ScienceBlogs  
		
		 Search ScienceBlogs: 
		
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		
		 Go to: 
		  
 Choose a blog... 




 2010 World Science Festival Blog 







 A Few Things Ill Considered 







 Aardvarchaeology 







 Aetiology 













 Art of Science Learning 











 bioephemera 









 Brazillion Thoughts 





 Brookhaven Bits & Bytes 



 Built on Facts 









 Casaubon's Book 



















 Class M 











 Common Knowledge 





 Confessions of a Science Librarian 









 The Corpus Callosum 







 Dean's Corner 





 Deltoid 



 denialism blog 



 Developing Intelligence 



 Discovering Biology in a Digital World 





 Dispatches from the Culture Wars 









 DrugMonkey 



 Dynamics of Cats 













 erv 







 Evolution for Everyone 



 EvolutionBlog 

























 Greg Laden's Blog 



 Guilty Planet 



















 Life at the SETI Institute 



 Life Lines 













 Mike the Mad Biologist 

















 Neurophilosophy 



 Neurotopia 









 Observations of a Nerd 





 Omni Brain 



 On Becoming a Domestic and Laboratory Goddess 



 Oscillator 



 Page 3.14 



 Pharyngula 



 Photo Synthesis 











 The Pump Handle 



















 Respectful Insolence 



















 Science is Culture 





 The ScienceBlogs Book Club 



 ScienceBlogs HQ 





 SciencePunk 





 The Scientific Activist 



 The Scientific Indian 















 Starts With A Bang 



 Stoat 









 Tetrapod Zoology 



 The Thoughtful Animal 



 Thoughts from Kansas 





 Tomorrow's Table 









 Uncertain Principles 



 Universe 





 USA Science and Engineering Festival: The Blog 











 We Beasties 



 The Weizmann Wave 





 The World's Fair 





 Zooillogix 


  
		
		 
		
			 Channels 
			 
				  Last 24 Hours  
				  Life Science  
				  Physical Science  
				  Environment  
				  Humanities & Social Science  
				  Education  
				  Politics  
				  Medicine & Health  
				  Brain & Behavior  
				  Technology  
				  Information Science  
				  Jobs  
			 
			
			 RSS Feeds 
			 
				  ScienceBlogs Select  
				  The Combined Feed  
				  Peer Review on Sb  
				  News-Related Posts  
				  All Feeds  
			 
			
			 More ScienceBlogs 
			 
				  New! Sb on Twitter  
				  Email Alerts  
				  Weekly Newsletter  
				  The ScienceBlogs Shop  
				  The Latest Comments  
			 
		
		 

		
		 
		  
		
		 
		
		 
		Advertisement
		 
		


 
 
  
 
 
 
	 
	 
 
 


		 
		 
		
		 
 Top Five Most Active 

 


 1 Marc Stephens issues more threats on behalf of the Burzynski Clinic 
  Orac  11.28.2011   

 2 Periodic Table of Swearing 
  ERV  11.26.2011   

 3 Acupuncture is bunk 
  PZ Myers  11.28.2011  

 4 Welcome back, my friends, to the thread that never ends... 
  Orac  11.13.2011   

 5 On the trick to hide the context 
  Tim Lambert  11.28.2011   








































  

		
		
		
		 
		   
		
		 
  
 
		
		 
		 Science News from  NYTimes.com »  
		
 
		
 From NYTimes.com 
 Latest science stories |  More at nytimes.com  

 


 1 Profiles in Science | Steven Pinker: Profiles in Science - Steven Pinker - Human Nature’s Pathologist     
 2 Nation’s Oldest Birding Group Serves as a Collective Memory     
 3 Essay: With Chocolate at Stake, Physicists Bet on Whether the Higgs Boson Will Be Found     
 4 The Certainty of Memory Has Its Day in Court     
 5 New Hope of a Cure for H.I.V.     


 
		
 
		 
		
		 
  
 







		
	 

 
 

 

 

 
 

	  The Blog Index   |   About ScienceBlogs   |   Advertise with ScienceBlogs   |   Privacy Policy   |   Terms & Conditions   |  Code of Conduct  |  Contact Us  

	 © 2006-2011 ScienceBlogs LLC. ScienceBlogs is a registered trademark of ScienceBlogs LLC. All rights reserved.