Scibooks.org  
 
     
 
   
	 
 

			
      
     Scibooks.org 
	  
					
            
            
             
                
             
           
           Science Book News and Reviews 
            Science is mankind's great intellectual adventure, and in the last 
            500 years, it has dramatically changed the way we live. Thanks to 
            science, we can move from continent to continent with an ease that 
            was once unimaginable, and our daily lives are comfortable in ways 
            that were inconceivable a few generations ago. We can cure diseases 
            that once were thought incurable, and, as a consequence, life expectancy 
            of Americans increased 50 percent in the last century. Yet the science 
            behind these advances remains a mystery to most people. 
           Fortunately, a solution is at hand; popular science books make scientific 
            literacy possible for anyone. Popular science books are not necessarily 
            popular; you will rarely find one on a best seller list. These books 
            are written for the public, and they are entertaining, generally accurate, 
            and amazingly informative. Furthermore, they are crucially important 
            to understanding the way we think and live. 
           Phillip Manning has been reviewing books on popular science for newspapers 
            for almost a decade. This site contains a selection of his reviews 
            and essays.  
          For a free subscription to Science Book 
          News, a weekly compendium of new science books and book reviews, email:Ê pvmanning@mindspring.com  
          with "subscribe" in the subject line. 
           Ê 
            
              
           
           
            
    
            
						
						
       
           

					 Ê 
				 
				
				 
            
             
           
                What's 
                New in Science Books  Ê Ê(Updated Weekly) 
  Recent Reviews   
                Subscribe to Science Book News  
              
                Archived Reviews   
     Acknowledgements     
   About the Reviewer  
                Home  
        
             
					 
					 
             
                
             
            
     
          
           
				 
				
				 Ê