Popular Science and Mathematics Book Reviews - TechBookReport 
 

 
    
 
    
          
			 
	   			| Home |					
				| New Reviews |
                | Software Methodologies |
                | AI/Machine Learning |
                | Programming |
                | Java |
                | Linux/Open Source |
				| XML |
                | Software Tools |
				| Web |
                | Other |
                | All By Date |
                | All By Title |
                | Resources |
				| About |
             
          
	 
 

 

  
  
  Your Ad Here  

 
 
 
    
    
 

 Popular Science and Mathematics
   


  
 
 

  A Brief History of Infinity by Brian Clegg  
  AI Application Programming by M. Tim Jones  
  An Introduction To Genetic Algorithms by Melanie Mitchell  
  Analyzing Business Data With Excel by Gerald Knight  
  Artificial Intelligence by Rob Callan  
  Biochemistry For Dummies by John Moore and Richard Langley  
  Blondie 24: Playing At The Edge of AI by David Fogel  
  Calculus Gems by George F. Simmons  
  The Chilling Stars by Henrik Svensmark and Nigel Calder  
  Complexity : A Guided Tour by Melanie Mitchell  
  Complexity: The Emerging Science at the Edge of Order and Chaos by M. Mitchell Waldrop  
  Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery with Evolutionary Algorithms by Alex Freitas  
  Designing Sociable Robots by Cynthia Breazeal  
  The Edge of Physics by Anil Ananthaswamy  
  Emergence: The Connected Lives of Ants, Brains, Cities and Software by Steven Johnson  
  Freakonomics by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner  
  Head First Data Analysis by Michael Milton  
  Intelligent Data Analysis: An Introduction edited by Bethold and Hand  
  Intro Stats by De Veaux and Velleman  
  The Origin Of Wealth by Eric Beinhocker  
  Parallel Worlds by Michio Kaku  
  Programming Collective Intelligence by Toby Segaran  
  Statistics and Data Analysis by Andrew F. Siegel and Charles J. Morgan  
  Statistics For Dummies by Deborah Rumsey  
  Statistics For People Who (Think They) Hate Statistics by Neil Salkind  
  Statistics Hacks by Bruce Frey  
  Statistics In A Nutshell by Sarah Boslaugh and Paul Watters  
  Stats: Data and Models by De Veaux, Velleman and Bock  
  The Tao of Statistics by Dana Keller  
  Understanding and Using Advanced Statistics by Foster, Barkus and Yavorksy  
  Visualizing Data by Ben Fry  
  What Is Thought? by Eric B. Baum  

 
 
 
   
 
 
TechBookReport Tutorials 
 
   SQL Tutorial  
   Agile Development In 30 Seconds  
   Eclipse In 30 Seconds  
   Standard Deviation In 30 Seconds  
   Quantiles In 30 Seconds  
   Excel VBA Tutorial  			
   File System Object Tutorial  
   VBA Dictionary Object In Excel  
   JDBC-ODBC - Quick Introduction  
   Introduction To Apache Derby  
   Groovy Databasing With Apache Derby  
   Introduction to Groovy and XML  
   NetBeans 6.1 and MySQL  
   VirtualBox physical to logical migration  
  
   
 
 
    
      Intro Stats
    
 
 
 
 There are some people, or so it is said, who find books on statistics boring. Hard to believe but there it is. Here at TechBookReport we don't take such scurrilous rumours seriously. There are, unfortunately a number of authors who subscribe to this belief, and respond to it by writing 'the fun guide to multivariate statistics' or 'data analysis for groovy kids'. Even more unfortunately there are publishers out there who encourage this by publishing such books, knowing full well that the patronising nonsense within is neither fun, interesting or of much educational value. Thankfully 'Intro Stats' exists to show that it is possible to write, and publish, books on statistics which are interesting, engaging, unpatronising and which pack a good educational punch without getting bogged down in arcane mathematical proofs, heavy weight notation or dense formulae that frightens the horses. 

This is an introductory statistics text, (the clue is in the title), which stands head and shoulders above most of the competition. The exposition is always clear and is aided by good design, with effective use of graphics and colour. The worked examples are exactly that, with a step by step approach that doesn't spoon-feed the reader but neither does it leave the reader behind by missing crucial steps. This step-by-step approach is very effective, and it greatly assists the authors in their aim to help the reader understand what is going on.  [Continued] 

  
 
  
 


   Contents © TechBookReport 2006. Automatically generated using BSRTools on 24 Nov 2011