Latest golf news, golf results & golf in Wales - WalesOnline 
	
			
			  
			  
		
		 
	
		 
	
			
			

		
		  
	
		
		  
		
			  
		
					
					  
					  
					  
					  
					  
					
				
				  
			
		  

	   

		
		  	
	


			 
		
			 
		
			 
		
			 
	
	 

	  

		  
	
						
				  
			
			  
			  
		
			  
			  
			  
								
				  
				
				
				
		 
	
			    
				
			
			  
			  

			  
		
			  
		
		 

		 								
			
			
			
			  
			  
				
		 
	 
	
		  
	
		  
	  
			 
				 
				
				 
			 
		  
	  
			 
				 
				
				 
			 
		  
	
		  
	 
	 
			 
				
			 
		 
		  
	
	 
				 
					 
				
	 
	 
	  
	
	  
	  13°C - 24 kph wind   
	 
	    
		  
	 Updated 6:56am 29 November 2011:
		  
	    
	 

			  
		
		  

	 
		  
	
	 
					 
				 Get involved 
 
 Send your stories  |
 Contact us 
 
 RSS news for you 
   
		 
		 
		  
	   Home    News     Wales News    CardiffOnline    ValleysOnline    Datastore    Local Welsh News      Columnists    UK News    World News    Politics    Education News      Health News    Country and Farming    Letters to the editor    Need to Read    Corrections and clarifications       Rugby     Rugby News    Focus on Rugby    Rugby Columnists    Blues    Dragons      Scarlets    Ospreys    Welsh Premier    Divisions 1 East & West    Divisions 2 - 6      Rugby Blogs    Rugby World Cup 2011 Archive       Sports     Sports News    Columnists    Grassroots    Parklife    Olympics 2012      Athletics    Cycling    Boxing    Tennis    Glamorgan CCC      Cricket    Ice Hockey    Golf    Rugby League    Motor Sport       Football     Football News    Football Columnists    Wales Football    Cardiff City    Swansea City      Wrexham    Merthyr Tydfil    Newport County    Welsh Premier    Football Videos & Pictures      Football Blogs    Farewell to Ninian       Lifestyle     Showbiz    Real Life    Entertainment    Christmas    The Beauty Box      Health & Fitness    Weddings    Food & Drink    Style & Shopping    Home & Interiors      Wellbeing    Books    WM Magazine    Lifestyle Blogs    Columnists       Entertainment    Business     Business News    Features    Business Columnists    Commercial Property    Personal Finance      Videos & Pictures    Business Advice    Appointments    Assembly Business    Business Debate      Business Calendar    Business Deals    Business Style    Top 300    Business in Wales magazine       Classifieds     Business in Wales    Business in Swansea    Business in Cardiff    LocalMole    Jobs Wales      Motors Wales    Homes Wales    BuySell    Discount Vouchers    Family Notices BMD      Public Notices    Dating    Book an Ad    Your Money       Travel    Videos & Pics     News    Pembrokeshire Murders    Royal Wedding    Sport    Business      Politics    History & Nostalgia    Health Check Wales    Go Green    Entertainment      Your Videos & Pics    Buy A Photo    Photoblog    Photomarathon    Big Picture       Go Green     Green Living    Climate Change    Business    Energy    Environment      Partners    Go Green Video    Transport    Waste    Communities      Green Blogs       Health Check Wales     Health News    Diet    Fitness    Health Features    UK & World Health News      Information       CardiffOnline     Cardiff news    Cardiff Rugby    Cardiff Football    yourCardiff      
		   
		  
	
		  
	
	 
				  
					 
				 
	 Hot Topics » 
	 
	 
	 Gary Speed    
	 
	 Christmas channel     
	 
	 Popular articles    
	 
	 Sexiest Men in Wales    
	 
	 Sexiest Women in Wales     
	 
	 Jacks Banter    
	 
	 Bluebirds Banter    
	 
	 More...     

	 
	

	  
	
	     
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	   
	
	
	 
	
			 
                Powered by Google
		
				 
				 
				
					  Site 
					 
					  Web 
					 
					
						 
					
					 
				
			 
		
	 

	
	
	     
					 
						 Home 
					 
				
					 
						 Sports 
					 
				
					 
						 
							 Golf 
						 
					 
				   
	  
			 
				 
				
				 
			 
	  
					 
				 
	 In association with 
	 
	  
	
  
	     
	
	 
	
	 
	

	  
	
	 
	
	    
		   
	
		  
	 
	 
	
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Golf: Wales Open going Japanese in 2012 at the Celtic Manor 
Nov 29 2011   NEXT summer’s Wales Open at the Celtic Manor Resort is going Japanese with news entrepreneur and philanthropist Dr Haruhisa Handa is to sponsor the European Tour event. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Golf: USA hold two stroke lead in Golf World Cup 
Nov 27 2011   The United States hold a two-stroke lead over Ireland and Germany midway through the final round of the Golf World Cup as four birdies saw Matt Kuchar and Gary Woodland close in on the trophy. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Otto out in front after day to forget for five-time winner Els 
Nov 27 2011   n GOLF: Hennie Otto leads the South African Open with a round to go after a day to forget for both five-time winner Ernie Els and overnight leader Steven O’Hara. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	O’Hara finds his form at last 
Nov 26 2011   n GOLF: Scotland’s Steven O’Hara, fighting for his European Tour life, leads the South African Open on his own after a second-round 68 at Serengeti. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Golf: Wales need to improve in World Cup bid 
Nov 25 2011   JAMIE DONALDSON and Rhys Davies have left themselves with work to do in their quest to win a third World Cup for Wales. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Golf: Flawless show by Sion Bebb 
Nov 25 2011   SION BEBB geared up for next week’s European Tour qualifying in Spain with a flawless performance to win the second South Wales PGA medal of the winter. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Golf: Phillip Price is right in battle to keep Tour card 
Nov 25 2011   WELSH golfer Phillip Price has come out fighting from the red corner in the closing rounds of his battle for European Tour survival. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Lee in a return to PGA Tour 
Nov 24 2011   WORLD No.3 Lee Westwood will divide his time between Europe and America next year after deciding to rejoin the PGA Tour in 2012. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Golf; Rhys Davies back in the groove with third spot in Malaysia 
Nov 21 2011   WELSHMAN Rhys Davies announced his return to the European Tour big time with tied third in the rain-ravaged Iskandar Johor Open in Malaysia. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Golf: Phillip Price throws himself European Tour lifeline 
Nov 21 2011   WELSHMAN Phillip Price threw himself a European Tour lifeline heading into the final event of his season this week. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Price birdie watching in Dunhill tournament 
Nov 20 2011   FIGHTING for his European Tour life, Phil Price called upon all his experience yesterday to launch an amazing charge up the leaderboard in the Alfred Dunhill Championship at Leopard Creek. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	A close call in Malaysia 
Nov 20 2011   DANIEL CHOPRA is in pole position to claim the Iskandar Johor Open, but Padraig Harrington and James Morrison remain firmly in contention after heavy rain in Malaysia saw the tournament reduced to 54 holes. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Porthcawl finalist out of China trip 
Nov 18 2011   WELSH amateur golfer Mark Furneaux was forced to withdraw at the last minute from the Audi Quattro World Final in China. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Golf: England go down the same route as Wales with golfing merger 
Nov 18 2011   ENGLISH golf is to go down the same route as Wales after the merger of the English Golf Union and the English Women’s Golf Association was approved at simultaneous general meetings of both organisations this week. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Golf: Tiger is unleashed on the Abu Dhabi Championship 
Nov 18 2011   TIGER WOODS is to make his debut in the Abu Dhabi HSBC Championship – the first leg of the European Tour’s three-week Middle East swing – on January 26 to 29. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Golf: Illustrious European Tour careers of Price and Dodd hanging by slender thread 
Nov 18 2011   WELSH pair Stephen Dodd and Phillip Price are likely to be heading into next week’s South African Open with their European Tour playing rights hanging by a thread. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Golf: Beach and Dun going in search of some Turkish delight in Lombard final 
Nov 18 2011   MARRIOTT St Pierre Hotel & Country Club captain Alan Beach hopes jet-setting PGA professional Craig Dun’s experience will make all the difference at the final of The Lombard Challenge in Turkey. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Tiger creeps into top 50 
Nov 15 2011   GOLF: Tiger Woods is back in the world’s top 50 after finishing third at the Australian Open – but only just. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Golf: Big-game angler Mouland has his eyes on hooking Mauritius prize in Senior Tour finale 
Nov 11 2011   HAVING hooked a 147lb marlin on his last venture to Mauritius, Mark Mouland insists he will have bigger fish to fry on his return to the sun-kissed Indian Ocean island next month for the European Senior Tour finale. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
					 
				 
	 
 
 
	Golf: Australian Open boss livid after walk off from John Daly 
Nov 11 2011   AUSTRALIAN OPEN tournament director Trevor Herden has hit out at John Daly, calling him “unprofessional” after the American stormed off the course midway through his first round. Read 
	 
	
	  
	 
	  
	  
	
		  
	
		  
	 
	    	 
		
					 1 
				
					  2  
				
					  3  
				
					  4  
				
					  5  
				
					  6  
				
					  7  
				
					  8  
				
					  9  
				
					  10  
				 
				 next 
			 
			 
			 More from November 2011 
			 
			  
			
				 
			 
		 
		  
	 
	
	 
					 
				
			 
		 Quick Links 
		 
		 
		
	
 
		 
			 Athletics 				
		 
		
		 
			 Boxing 				
		 
		
		 
			 Cricket 				
		 
		
		 
			 Cycling 				
		 
		
		 
			 Glamorgan CCC 				
		 
		
		 
			 Grassroots 				
		 
		
		 
			 Ice Hockey 				
		 
		
		 
			 Motor Sport 				
		 
		
		 
			 Olympics 2012 				
		 
		
		 
			 Parklife 				
		 
		
		 
			 Racing 				
		 
		
		 
			 Rugby League 				
		 
		
		 
			 Columnists 				
		 
		
		 
			 Sports News 				
		 
		
		 
			 Tennis 				
		 
		
		 
			 RSS News for you 				
		 			
		
	 
	 
	 
	
				 
				

				  
				
				 
		
			 
		  
		  
	
		  
	
	  
					 
				 
	 Ryder Cup 2010     
	 
	   
	 
	 Ryder Cup News    
	 
	 Ryder Cup Schedule    
	 
	 Team Points    
	 
	 Course Guide    
	 
	 History and Stats    
	 
	 Videos & Pics     
  
	 
	

	  
	
	 
	
	    
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
		 
		 
		  
	
		 
		  
	 
	
		 
	 
				 
					 
				
	 

	 

		              
	
	 

	 
    
	
		  
	  
		  
	
		  
	  
			 
				 
				
				 
			 
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
	 
				 
					 
				 
 Walesonline Classifieds 
	 
	 
	  Jobs in Wales  
	  Cars in Wales  
	  Find a dream date  
	 
	 
	 
	  Photosales  	
  Wales Vouchers  
	  Cashback  
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	  Find local business  
	  Homes in Wales  
	  BuySell  	
	 
	 
	 
	  Book an ad  
	  Advertise  
 
 Video Production 
 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
  
					 
				 
	 
	  LocalMole.co.uk Business Finder  
	 
	 	
	 
	Please enter a Business and Location.
	 
	 
	 	
	 
	 
	 
	 
	  Pubs in Cardiff  
	  Plumbers in Cardiff  
	  Restaurants in Cardiff  
	  Builders in Cardiff  
	  Hotels in Cardiff  
	  Schools in Cardiff  	
	 	
	  
	 
	 
	  More Cardiff Businesses »  
	 
	 
	  Accountants in Cardiff  
	  Architects in Cardiff  
	  Beauty Salons in Cardiff  
	  Business Centres in Cardiff  
	  Business Services in Cardiff  
	  Cafes in Cardiff  
	  Caravan Dealers in Cardiff  
	  Car Dealers in Cardiff  
	  Car Hire in Cardiff  
	  Care Homes in Cardiff  
	  Cleaners in Cardiff  
	  Computer Repair in Cardiff  
	  Debt Advice in Cardiff  
	  Dentists in Cardiff  
	  Doctors in Cardiff  
	  Driving Schools in Cardiff  
	  Electricians in Cardiff  
	  Estate Agents in Cardiff  
	 
	 
	  Florists in Cardiff  
	  Funeral Directors in Cardiff  
	  Garden Centres in Cardiff  
	  Hairdressers in Cardiff  
	  Insurance Services in Cardiff  
	  Lawyers in Cardiff  
	  Locksmiths in Cardiff  
	  Marketing Companies in Cardiff  
	  Mobile Phones in Cardiff  
	  Museums in Cardiff  	
	  Nursery Schools in Cardiff  
	  Office Rental in Cardiff  
	  Pet Services in Cardiff  
	  Plasterers in Cardiff  
	  Solicitors in Cardiff  
	  Takeaways in Cardiff  
	  Taxis in Cardiff  
	  Wedding Services in Cardiff  	
	 	
	  
	 	
	  	
	 	
	 
	 List your business for free » 	
	 	
	    
		  
	
		  
	  
		  
	
		  
	
	  
					 
				     
					 
				     
		  
	
		  
	  
	
	  
	
		  
		  
	  
			 
				 
				
				 
			 
		  
	
		 
		  
	
		  
	
		  
	
	 
				  
					 
				 
	 Hot Topics » 
	 
	 
	 Gary Speed    
	 
	 Christmas channel     
	 
	 Popular articles    
	 
	 Sexiest Men in Wales    
	 
	 Sexiest Women in Wales     
	 
	 Jacks Banter    
	 
	 Bluebirds Banter    
	 
	 More...     

	 
	

	  
	
	     
		  
	
		  
	
	  
					 
				 
	 More Sport news    
	 
	 
	 Latest National Sports News  
	 
	
	
     
	 
	Haye back in gym for Klitschko fight
	 
	      
	 
	Robinson gets five-year ban
	 
	      
	 
	Hamilton set for new £50m McLaren deal
	 
	      
	 
	Don't take the Mickey... Rourke's getting Welsh lessons for Thomas film role
	 
	      
	 
	Don't take the Mickey... Rourke's getting Welsh lessons for Thomas film role
	 
	     
	
	

	
	 
	more Mirror Sports stories
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	

	  
	
	 
	
	    
	 
	 
	 Welsh Sports News 
	 
	
	
     
	 
	Boxing: Haye confirms talks with Klitschko
	 
	      
	 
	Cricket: Colwyn Bay Cricket Club sign George Johansen
	 
	      
	 
	Wales Football Team: New Video: Tributes from football world for Gary Speed
	 
	      
	 
	Wales Football Team: New Video: David Cameron pays tribute to Gary Speed
	 
	      
	 
	Breaking News: James joins Wakefield
	 
	     
	
	

	
	 
	more Daily Post Sports stories
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	

	  
	
	 
	
	    
	 
	 
	 Welsh Rugby News And Banter 
	 
	
	
     
	 
	That Welsh squad are all Heroes, no matter what!
	 
	      
	 
	Wales vs Ireland: Dare to Dream!
	 
	      
	 
	Wales vs Samoa!
	 
	      
	 
	The Rugby World Cup: Wales and other thoughts!
	 
	      
	 
	Australia lift the Tri-Nations title!
	 
	     
	
	

	
	 
	more WalesonOnline Rugby stories
	 
	
	
	
	 
	
	 
	

	  
	
	 
	
	     

	 
	

	  
	
	 
	
	    
		  
	
		  
	 
	 WalesOnline, the best source for Welsh news, sport, business and entertainment. Powered by the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and Celtic Weekly Newspapers. Produced by Media Wales Ltd.  Contact us . 
		 
	 
				  
					 
				
 
  About us 
  
 WalesOnline, the best source for  Welsh news , sport,  business  and  lifestyle  and  entertainment . Powered by the Western Mail, South Wales Echo, Wales on Sunday and Celtic Weekly Newspapers. Produced by  Media Wales Ltd .  
  
  
  Login or Register 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  Popular sections 
  
  
  
  Home 
  
  
  News 
  
	  
  Cardiff News 
  
  
  South Wales Valleys News 
  
  
  UK News 
  
  
  Rugby News 
  
  
  Cardiff Blues 
  
  
  Dragons 
  
  
  Scarlets 
  
  
  Ospreys 
  
  
  Welsh Premier League 
  
 
  
  
	 
	  
	 	 
  
  FootballNation 
  
  
  Football News 
  
  
  Cardiff City FC News 
  
  
  Swansea City FC News 
  
  
  Business 
  
	  
  Videos & Pics 
  
  
  News Videos 
  
  
  Sports Videos 
  
  
  News Pictures 
  
  
  Sports Pictures 
  
  
  Audio 
  
 
  Country & Farming 
  
 
  Special Features 
  	
	
 
 
  
	  
	  Useful links 	
  
  
 	   Sitemap   
 
  Contact Us 
  
 
 Complaints  
 
 Corrections and Clarifications  
 
  Book an advert in our newspapers or online 
  
	   Accessibility   
	   RSS feed info   
	   Weather  
   Send Your Stories   
	  
  Our Twitter Feed 
  
  
  Our Facebook Group 
  
	  
  yourCardiff 
  
  
  
  
  
  Letters to the editor  
  Datastore  
   Topic Index  
   Journalist directory  
  
  Community Guidelines 
  
  
  Frequently Asked Questions 
  
  
  Advertising Information 
  
	  Subscriptions  	
	  Buy a photo  

  
  
	 
 
 
  Our site network 
  
 
  Jobs Wales 
  
  
  Homes Wales 
  
  
  Motors Wales 
  
  
  WalesOnline Dating 
  
  The Geek Files  
  
  Buy & Sell Locally 
  
  
  Book an ad 
  
  
  Cashback 
  
  
  LocalMole - Trusted Local Businesses 
  
 
  Property Search Cardiff 
  
  Mirror Reader Offers  
  
      
	
		  
	
			 
				 	

					 Copyright and Trade Mark Notice © 2011 owned by or licensed to Media Wales Ltd. WalesOnline™ is a trade mark of Media Wales Ltd. Please read our  Terms and Conditions  and  Privacy Statement  before using this site.