Steve's free website templates and free web templates 
	 
	 
     
   

   
     
       
         
           
              
             
               
                 
                    Home  
                    Templates  
                    Premium Templates  
                    Terms  
                    FAQ  
                    User Guide  
                    Contact  
                 
               
             
           
         
	   
	   
	     
		   
		     
			   Steves free website templates & free web templates  
               Steves-Templates.com offers free website templates and professional premium web templates. Templates are a perfect solution for those that are unfamiliar with web design and to designers that need an instant, perfect solution. The free web templates offered on my site are original (meaning I create them all by hand). Please read the terms of use before using my work. The premium section contains everything from Flash templates, CMS like Joomla, WordPress, Drupal, Magento - to osCommerce, Zen Cart and simple CSS.    

			  
			     
				    
				 
			     
				    
				 
			     
				    
				 
			     
				    
				 
				
				   
				
			     
				    
				 
			     
				    
				 
			     
				    
				 
			     
				    
				 
			
				  
				   View all >>  
                
               My site offers free and premium templates (including flash), along with an online manual to help you set your site up if you are using one of my free website templates. Each template is compatible with all current browsers on the market including Firefox, Internet Explorer and Chrome and will fit most any screen resolution used. If you have trouble setting up or have questions concerning my free web page templates and graphics, please read the FAQ, and if that doesn't help you can always contact me. Thank you for using Steves-Templates.com, your continued support is always appreciated. 
			  
	                
            
			
           
             
               Free Templates 
               
                  Free web templates  
				  User guide  
				  Terms of use  
               
               Premium Templates 
			   
                  Premium templates  
               
             
			
			 
			   
			      Sell templates  
				  Recommended  
				  Contact Steve  
			   
			 
			
			
			
		   
         
        
       
	  
     
	   
	     
		   
		     Web site and all contents © Copyright Stephen Morris 2001-2011,  All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy  
			 
			  
              
             
             Web Stats