AntFarmhouse.com_Experiments 
 

 

 
		
		 
		
		  
		Experiments & Games 
 
		  
 
 
	 
		 
		 
		
		Experiments 
 AS WITH ANY EXPERIMENT DO NOT 
ATTEMPT ANY OF THESE WITHOUT SUPERVISION/PERMISSION FROM YOUR PARENT OR 
GUARDIAN!!! 
 Here are a few cool science 
experiments that you can do: 
		   
	 
	 
		 
 
 
Experiments You Can Do At Home  
 
A list of 
different experiments you can do with the items found in most kitchens. Do not 
try this without permission! 
		   
		 
 
 
Reeko's Mad Scientist Lab   
 
This site not 
only has experiments but it has some pretty good ideas for science projects. 
		   
		 
		   
		 
		 
		Zoom Science Lab  
		 
		Zoom was 
		one of my favorite TV shows as a kid. They always used to show you an 
		experiment or an activity that you could try at home. Here is their 
		website that has all the activities. Great for that rainy day over 
		summer vacation! 
   
		 
	 
	 
		 
  
Science Review 
Games  
 
Great place to 
review for that upcoming Regents test AND have fun playing games such as 
Basketball and Soccer while you study! 
		    
		   
		   
	 
 
 


Games 
 
	 
		 
		 
		 
		Explore Learning Gizmo's  
		 A bunch of interactive 
		games for all grade levels. Simulations can be part of lesson plan. 
		Great resource for both students and teachers! 
		 
		 
		 
		Exploratorium  
		 A great collection of 
		online activities! Sport Science, Food, Human Body, Living Things, to 
		name a few. Excellent website for students who are bored! Learn and have 
		fun at the same time. 
	 
	 
		 
		 
		 
		
		Interactive Science Websites  
		 A ton of interactive 
		Science websites. Plenty of sites to spend all day exploring. Something 
		for every type of scientific interest.  
		 
		 
		 
		Edheads.org  
		 This is one of my 
		students favorite sites. Here students can perform a knee surgery or hip 
		replacement. They just added a crash scene reenactment and of course 
		their simple machine activity is one of the best for middle school.   
	 
 
   
  BACK  

  