Rx30 - The Pharmacy System 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
      
  
 
   
     
       
         
               
             
            
   
 

     
   
   
     

  
   
   
      
       
         
          
                        
              
              
                
                
               
              
                          
         
        

       
   
   
      
       
          
          
          
       
       
           
          
           
              
                 
                      
                      
                 
                
           
          
          
           
              View ReClaimRx  Demo!  
           
            
             
              ReClaimRx 
            Sign Up Form  
           
          
             
              NJ Tracking 
            Functions  
           
           
              Drug AWP 
            Changes  
           
           
              Webinar Presentations 
            User Meetings  
           
           
              Rx30 now has facts  
            and comparisons  
           
           
              Rx30 now has  
            Medication Guides.  
           
           
              Electronic 835's 
            are here!  
           
           
              "SuccessFILL" 
            Workflow!  
           
           
              Outbound Calling /  
              Emailing is here!                
           
           
              Hardcopy Scanning and  
            Pill Imaging!               
           
          
          
           
       
       
          
          
          
       
     



    
   
   
      
      
      
   
   
       
     
	 
 
   
     
        
         License:  
        
               
     
     
        
         Password: 
        
         
     
    
     
         
        
         
        
     
   
 
     
       
   
   
      
      
      
   
 

     
      
       
          
          
          
       
       
           
          
           
                
                
           
          
         
         
            
             
               The Rx30 Pharmacy System provides your pharmacy incomparable Prescription Filling, Nursing Home, Consulting, Accounts Receivable, Workflow Management, Signature Capture, IV processing, Compounding, Integrated POS Solutions and an abundance of value-added vendor interfaces to provide you a total turnkey dispensing solution. Whether you are a small independent start-up filling 30 prescriptions a day or a 100+ independent chain operation filling 1500 prescriptions a day - Rx30 is the perfect solution! 
               
           
           
           
       
       
          
          
          
       
     
       
       
          
          
          
       
       
           
          
           
                
              
               
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                   
                  
                     
                         
                         
                       
                  
                   
               
               
                  
                  
                  
               
              
           
          
           
       
       
          
          
          
       
     
       
         
            
             
                
                
                
             
             
                 
                  
                 
             
             
                
                
                
             
            
            
         
            
            
            
         
         
             
           Transaction Data Systems, Inc. in partnership with IMS Health Incorporated (IMS), supports the advancement of healthcare while ensuring the protection of patient privacy. Click on this link to learn more about healthcare information use and disclosure.  www.imshealth.com/us/SupplierRelations  
             
         
         
            
            
            
         
        
         
       
      
     
   
   
      
       
          
         Copyright 2008 Transaction Data Systems                                             Questions or comments about the site, please contact us at webmaster@rx30.com