?
 
 
	 
	 Maxor National Pharmacy Services Corp. 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	  
	 
	 
	  
       
 

 

	 
		 
			 
				 
					  
				 
				 
					
				 
				 
					 
					 Welcome to Maxor. 
					 Adjust font size: 
					 
						 
							 
								  
							 
							 
								  
							 
							 
								  
							 
							 
								  
							 
						 
					 
				 
			 
		 
	 
	
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
                    Prescription Refills
                     
                    	   MaxorPlus Members Rx refills  
                    	   All other Rx refills  
                     
                      
					For Members
					 
						   Log in or Register  
						   US Family Health Plan Members  
						   MaxorPlus Members  
						   New Prescriptions  
						
						   Find a Pharmacy  
						   Common Questions  
						   Discount Savings Card  
						   Contact Us  
						   Privacy Statement  
						   Patient education  
					 
					  
					Business Divisions
					 
						   MaxorPlus  
						   Maxor Pharmacies  
						   Maxor Specialty  
						   IV Solutions  
						   PickPoint  
					 
					  
					Pharmacy Svcs.
					 
						   Maxor Pharmacy Mgmt.  
						   Maxor Pharmacy Consulting Services  
						   Correctional  Services  
					 
					  
					About Us
					 
						   Employment  
						   Company Information & History  
						   Corporate Officers  
						   Press Releases  
					 
				 
				 
					  
					 Maxor.  Pharmacy services with you in mind. 
					 Maxor National Pharmacy Services Corporation is an employee-driven pharmacy and healthcare organization with a diverse offering of services, including our prescription benefit management service,  MaxorPlus , to our array of integrated pharmacy services such as  Maxor Pharmacy Consulting Services . Our employees, headquartered in Amarillo, Texas, provide award-winning service to our customers nationwide. Members returning to our Web site can  refill prescriptions ,  find a nearby pharmacy  and  get answers to common questions . Maxor provides pharmacy services with you in mind, and we look forward to serving you. 
					
					
					
					 
						 
							 	
								   
								  MaxorPlus Members 
							 
							 
								   
								  US Family Health Plan Members 
							 
						 
					 
							
					 
					  
					 Ready to get started?  We're here to help you. 
					 
						 
							 
								  
								 Fill prescriptions 
								 Use your prescription number and date of birth to refill meds 
								  
							 
							 
								  
								 Contact us 
								 We welcome your questions and comments 
								  
							 
							 
								  
								 Find a pharmacy 
								 Quickly locate pharmacies near your home or office 
								  
							 
						 
					 
					  
					 
						© 2007 Maxor National Pharmacy Services Corp. All Rights Reserved. 
						 About Us  |  Contact Us  |  Privacy Statement  |  Credit Card Policies  |   Maxor Reports  |  Webmail  |  Maxor Portal 
					 
				 
				 
					 
					
					 Features 
					
					  
					  Patient Education  - Maxor is pleased to offer information on a variety of health topics, including diabetes, hypertension and cholesterol.  Read more  
					
					  
					  Controlling Your Medication Costs  - If something is more expensive, then we as consumers believe that it must be better. This is not the case in the prescription drug industry...  Read more  
					
					
				
					
					
					  
					  Get smart.  Find a variety of health and drug information on  WebMD . 
					    
					
					 Ê 
					
                      
                      Under the leadership of Dr. Tom Hale of Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, the  InfantRisk Center  has been established as a national call center to answer questions about medication safety for pregnant and breastfeeding women.