Conversion Tools, Dosage Calculators, Prescription Abbreviations RxDesktop 
 
 
  

 
 

 

 
 
   
     
	
	
	 
   
        
       
    A Professional Resource for Health Care Providers 
      from Taro Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc.  
        
   
 

	
	
	  
   
   
     
	
	
	
	 
       
         
		   
		     
		       
		         
		           
               
                 
				 
				Prescription Abbreviations 				 
                 
				 
				Weights and Measures 
				  
                 
				 
				Dosage Calculator
				 
				  
                 
				 
				Industry Links 
				 
				 
               
             		     
			     
		       
	        
         
		 
   
      
	 
		 
			 
		  
	 
	 
		  For the Treatment 
	    of Dyschromia  
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
	 
		 
			 
   
      Get Your   
   
   
      ULTRA Rebate   
   
   
      up to $50 off   
   
  
	 
	 
		 
			  
			  Visit  www.Lustra.com  
		    for Safety Information 
		     Click here for full Prescribing Information  
  
	 
	 
		 
			 
			May cause skin irritation. 
			Avoid contact with eyes. 
			Contains sodium metabisulfite, 
	  a potential allergen. May produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed. 
		   
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
	 
		 
			 
	 
  
   
 

          
       
       
         
		
		 
           
             
			
			
			
			 
   
             
         Contact Us   |   Site Map          
   
   
     
       
         
           Welcome to the Rx Desktop 
         
        
     
   
 
			 
           
           
             
			 
   
     
       
         
             
            Taro Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc. is dedicated to supporting health care professionals and students with clinical resources and educational tools.
                              
                 
                 
                                Taro  hopes you will find RxDesktop to be a functional part of your daily clinical routine. 
						   
						         
						         
						        The new RxDesktop offers easy to use conversion tables for calculating prescription abbreviations, dosages, and weights and measures.
						      
			                  
           
		  
		     
		       
		         
		            
				    
             Prescription Abbreviations   
         
		         
		            
				    
             Weights and Measures   
         
		         
		              
             Dosage Calculator   
         
		                   
		        
         
         
            Stay informed. Bookmark RxDesktop.com so that it will always be within reach when you need it. 
			 
           
       
     
   
   
     

	RxDesktop.com, Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., and its subsidiaries and affiliates ("Taro"), make no representation as to the availability, accuracy or completeness of the content of this site. Taro shall not be liable for any damages or injury resulting from users' access to or inability to access this site or from reliance on any information extracted from or generated by this site. 
   
 

			
			
			
			
			
			 
           
         
				 
         
       
         
		
		 
           
               
                 
                For futher information, please see our  Terms of Use   and  Privacy Statement . 
              2010-2015 Taro Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc. All Rights Reserved 
               
               Useful Taro Links  |   Learn About Taro Products