Pharmacy Software For Long Term Care And Retail Pharmacies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  


 
  
 
 
 Pharmacy Software For Long Term Care And Retail Pharmacies 
 
   
     
      
       
          Prodigy Data Systems  
         Specializing In Long Term Care Pharmacy Software since 1982 
	   
          	 
	             CALL US TODAY! 
	            403.257.2749 
           	 
         
         
           
              Home  
              Products  
              Services  
              Testimonials  
              Partners  
              About Us  
              Contacts  
           
         
          
           
             Providing Solutions For  
              Pharmacies Servicing 
             
           
                  
         
    	   
                   
           
          	 Long Term Care / Extended Care 
             Acute / Subacute 
             Board And Care 
             Intermediate Care 
             Skilled Care 
             Correctional Care 
             Rest Homes 
             Mental Health 
             Retail 
           
         
         
       
      
       
         
           
             
               
                 
                   
                     
                       
                         
                           
                             
                               PROscript LTC Pharmacy Software 
                               
                                The "PROscript 2000" Pharmacy Software  Is Currently Installed In The Largest Long Term Care Pharmacies Across The United States.
                                  
                                Prodigy's "PROscript 2000" software system provides the complete  long term care  pharmacy software solution to fulfill all of your pharmacy's requirements today and beyond. With features including Rx and drug verification, paperless document management, cycle filling, retroactive rebilling and review, tote management, bar coding, eMARS, batch billing, E-Prescribing, etc., "PROscript 2000" is the most efficient, innovative and user-friendly pharmacy management software available in the market today, backed by over 28 years of experience and Customer satisfaction. 
                                  
                                 Featured Services 
                                The company and it's principles have incorporated into this dynamic system all the necessary pharmacy software features and disciplines selected from over   28 years of experience. Prodigy is committed to providing the highest level of   software quality and service.
                                  
                                The "PROscript 2000" system enables the purchaser to have a competitive advantage and offer more services than other pharmacies. Some of the accomplishments produced by the Prodigy Pharmacy Software System include: 
                               
                               
                                 
                                   Superior User-Flexibility with System Options 
                                   Maximized Billing Accuracy and Speed 
                                   Improved Customer Response Time 
                                   Paperless Document Management via Docu-Flow 
                                   Expanded Pharmacist's Productive Hours 
                                   HL7 and Electronic Medical Records (E-MAR) Interfaces 
                                   Reduced Labor Costs 
                                   Increased Customer Services 
                                   Enhanced Prescription Entry for Easy and Efficient Rx Fills/Refills 
                                   E-Prescribing via the Surescripts Network 
                                 
                               
                                 More Services 
                                  
                               
                             
                             
                               Recent News 
                               
                                14Oct
                                    Visit Prodigy & VIEW A LIVE DEMO of PROscript 2000 at ASCP's Annual Pharmacy Meeting this November! It's that time of year again!  Prodigy Staff will be in Phoenix, AZ. from November 16-18, 2011 to gladly answer all questions and provide live software demonstrations of PROscript 2000's newest software features at the ASCP Annual Meeting! Mark your calendars and visit us at  booth #614.  
                           
                                  11Aug
                                   Prodigy Is Set To Expand!Prodigy Data Systems, Inc. has moved to a new and larger corporate headquarters building and is set to expand even further. The move officially took place August 8, 2011 and we are very excited! Look for the most innovative pharmacy software features to ever hit the LTC sector in the months and years to come.
                                  
                                      Read More News  
                                                                 
                                                             
                               "The Best Solution In
                              The Industry" 
                               PROscript continues to receive outstanding reviews.  
                               
                               Not only do our existing Customers continue to achieve rapid growth and success, outside pharmacy consultants are also highly recommending PROscript 2000. 
                                
                               More Testimonials 
                                
                             
                           
                         
                       
                     
                   
                 
               
             
             
               
                 
                   Why Choose Us? 
                   
                     With our unparalleled software features and industry knowledge, your pharmacy will always be on the  cutting edge of technology. 
                     Our Company philosophy differs significantly  from other pharmacy software vendors in that we believe in supplying the most advanced  and user-friendly software at the most cost effective price. 
                   
                 
                 
                   
                     Extensive  pharmacy management reports , as well  as enhanced Long Term Care and Retail software features such as drug imaging  and imprint, Rx Verification and Tote Management, paperless document  processing, etc. – all on a 100% Windows platform, contribute to the efficiency  of  PROscript 2000. 
                   
                 
                 
                    Our software is  Microsoft  Windows 2000/2003, XP,  Vista  and Windows 7 compatible. Written in the C++ programming language for  unrivalled versatility, speed and performance. 
                     We care about the needs and growth of your  pharmacy so that you can generate maximum profits in minimum time. 
                   
                    
                    
                   Call or Email us today! 
                     
                 
               
             
           
         
       
      
       
         Prodigy Data Systems, Inc. © 2011 |  Site Map