RxAmerica.com Home Page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

  

  
 
  
 
   
       
   
      
     
	
	       
        
        
		 
        	
			 
			    
			    	
			 
         
         
     
      
	   



 
  
     
       
	                            
	 
	  
     
     
        
     
   
 

 
   
   
      
     
       
         
         
           
                
          
             
			 
			 
			 
			
			 
			 
			 Our name is changing but our commitment to you is not. 
			 

 RxAmerica will now be known as CVS Caremark.  


 
   
    Joining with CVS Caremark brings  some changes like an updated website.  
 
 
Changes you will notice include:
 
 Logo  Letters and materials will now have the CVS Caremark name and logo. Your benefit ID card will not be replaced at this time.  Please continue to use the card you have been using.  
 Customer Care  You can still use the same phone numbers to contact us and you will now be greeted with the CVS Caremark name.  
 Web site 
Our Web site is being updated and will look different and function better but you will still have access to all of the same information as before. 
 Prescription refills for mail service If you used our mail service in the past you should have recieved a letter about the change to CVS Caremark Mail Service Pharmacy.  The refill order page on RxAmerica.com will redirect you to the right page on www.caremark.com to order refills. For a copy of this letter, click  here . 
     



What Will Not Change:
 
 Our commitment We remain committed to provide you with quality prescription drug benefits.   
 Participating pharmacies The same pharmacies are still available to serve you. 
 The Member Center All of the online tools you rely on to manage your health are still available on RxAmerica.com.   
 Medicare Part D Our Medicare Part D plan will continue to provide the same service to its members.  Visit  www.Meds4Medicare.com  for more information. 
 Member ID Card You can still use the same member ID card at participating retail pharmacies.  You don't need a new card.  If this changes, you will be notified. 
  

 Although our name and logo may be changing, you can continue to expect the same quality, access and personal service that you have come to know and trust. 
  

  
 Learn more about CVS Caremark by clicking  HERE.  
  
  
 
              
             
			 
            
            
            
           
            
            
 
               
               
                 
				
				 
	 

 
 
    
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
				 
				  
                   Quick Links 
                    Member Center Login   
                      
                       Formularies  
                 	  
					   CVS Caremark FAQs   
                        
                   Plan Sponsors 
                    Plan Sponsor Login  
                    
                   Physicians 
                    RxApprover  TM  
				   Prior Authorizations   
				     
                  
                   Medicare 
                    Meds4Medicare.com  
				   
				   
				   
				   				   
                 

              
               
            
            
         
 
   
   
       
   
      
     
       
         
         
             
         
            
            Terms 
            & Conditions  
            ©2009 Caremark, L.L.C.  
         
         
               
			
			
			
			 
    
	   Contact Us  •  Site Map  •  Careers  •  Privacy Policy   