RxTechSchool - Pharmacy Technician Training for the Pharmacy Tech - HomePage - 11/29/11 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  

  
 
 

 
	 
		 
			 
		 
	 
	 
		 
			     
			 
		 
		 
			Pharmacy Technician   
			Education and Training   
		 
	 
	 
		 
			   HOME 
			|  ABOUT US 
			|  COURSES 
			|  CE 
			|  CERTIFICATION 
			|  JOBS 
			|  HELP 
			 
		 
		 
			 
				
					 
						 
							 
								 
									 
										 
											New User?  Register Here 
										 
										 
											 
										 
										 
											 
										 
									 
								 
							 
						 
					 
				
			 
		 
	 

 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
	 
 

 

  

  



  


	  
	
  
 
	
	  

   
    
   
	
	
	 
		 
			 
				
				 
					 
						  
					 
					 
						 
							 RxTechSchool Home Page  
						 
					 
					 
						  
					 
					 
						  
					 
					 
						  Add to Favorites   
					 
					 
						  
					 
					 
						  
					 
					 
						  Login   
					 
					 
						  
					 
					 
						  
					 
					 
						  Testimonials   
					 
					 
						  
					 
					 
						 
							  
							 
								 
									 
										   
										 PTCB exam information for all 50 states 
								 
							 
							  
							
						 
					 
				 
				
			 
			 
				
				 
					 
						 
							 
						 
						 
							
							 Pharmacy Technician Training 
							 
								Welcome to RxTechSchool, your best source for pharmacy technician training and education.
								Our industry leading  Pharmacy Technician Fast Track Training  and  continuing education , RxTechSchool is the pharmacy technician's best educational resource.
								Whether you are new to the field or you are an experienced technician, we have the best educational tools available for a successful career in pharmacy.
							 
							 
						 
					 
					 
						 	
							
							 
								 
									 
										
										Fast Track Career Training Course
										
									 
								 
								 
									 
										
										
										RxTechSchool is currently enrolling students for our  Pharmacy Technician Fast Track  Training Course.
										The Fast Track course is for people who are interested in starting a new career as a pharmacy technician or for experienced technicians who are looking for a better educational background and certification review.
										  
										  
										  
										 Click Here  for more course information!
										  
										 Payment Plan now available  for RxTechSchool’s Fast Track career training program 
										 
											Student Testimonial: 
											 
												"Thanks so much for this course!! I never worked in a pharmacy before I signed up, started working as a tech, and less than 4 months later I am now a CERTIFIED PHARMACY TECHNICIAN! Your course helped me get where I wanted to go. Thanks again!"  
											 
										 Read More Student Testimonials 
									 
								 
							 
						 
					 
					 
						 
							 
							  
							 
							
							 
							So you want to start a career as a pharmacy technician? How about a pharmacy technician job description? In a nutshell, Pharmacy Technicians help licensed pharmacists provide medication and other healthcare products to patients and perform almost every function in the pharmacy. A Pharmacy Technician takes care of many of the day-to-day operations of a pharmacy, leaving a pharmacist free for more critical operations. Technicians usually perform routine tasks, such as: helping prepare prescribed medication for patients, counting tablets, answer telephones, receive written prescriptions, verifying written prescriptions, taking refill requests and much more. Pharmacy Technicians need special training in order to become qualified to work in most pharmacy settings. For a list of pharmacy technician and training options, click here for our course list.
							  
								
							 
							Navigating our web site is easy. The navigation buttons at the top of the screen will bring you to the category of your choice where you can dig deeper with more links along the left side of the page. Start by viewing our  pharmacy technician course list  where you will find detailed information about our training. If you are interested in becoming a Nationally Certified Pharmacy Technician, check out our  Pharmacy Technician Certification  section for all the information you need. Finally, our on-line  help  section has answers to many  Frequently Asked Questions  as well as a  contact form  you can use to contact an RxTechSchool representative.
						 
					 
				 
				
			 
			
			 
				 
					 
						 LIVE HELP  
					 
					 
						 Speak with an enrollment specialist. Call Toll Free 866-960-5334 
					 
							
				 
				 
					  
					  
				 
				 
					 
						 
							RxTech Bulletin 
						 
					 
					 
						 
							We are pleased to announce the induction of our payment plan option for the Fast Track pharmacy technician preparation program. This payment plan option is designed to accommodate your financial needs by allowing you to move forward through a three stage process over a period of six months. 
							Payment Plan now available for RxTechSchool’s Fast Track career training program.
						 
					 
					 
						 The RxTechSchool  Fast Track Career Training Course  is nationally recognized and now approved by the Virginia State Board of Pharmacy. 
							 
								 
									  
										  
									 
								 
							 
						 
					 
				 
				
				
				 
				Special Announcement 
				
	  
	  

				 
				
			 
			
		 
	 
	
	

		 
	 
	 
	 

	  
 
 
  
 
 
	 
	 Home  |
	 About  |
	 Courses  |
	 Certification  |
	 Jobs  |
	 Help 
	 
	 
	 Fast Track  |
	 Continuing Education 
	 
 
 
	 
	  
	 
		Disclaimer: RxTechSchool’s Fast Track Training is designed to teach or improve the skills necessary to be a pharmacy technician. Successful completion of either course does not necessarily mean you will qualify under state law to practice as a pharmacy technician. Check with your state’s board of pharmacy or equivalent licensing body for details. RxTechSchool representatives cannot provide advice regarding state-specific requirements relating to the practice of pharmacy.	 
	  
	Copyright © 2011  RxTechSchool  - All rights reserved.
	   Privacy 
	|  Terms of Service 
	|  Customer Satisfaction Policy 
	  
	Visit these other  Pharmacy Technician  Career Sites:
	 Pharmacy Choice ,
	 RxCareerCenter ,
	 RxSchool ,
	 Nursing Job Source 
	  
	866-960-5334