Buying Prescription Drugs in Mexico - Buying Drugs Over the Mexican Border in Nogales    

 

  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
			
				 
 
   About.com    Cities & Towns    Phoenix   
        
       Phoenix   
     Search   
   Phoenix    Things to Do    Phoenix Photos    Phoenix Holidays       
   Share   
 
     Free Phoenix Newsletter!           Sign Up    Discuss in my forum   
  Buying Prescription Drugs in Mexico  Know the Risks of Buying Prescription Drugs Across the Border  By  Judy Hedding , About.com Guide  
  See More About:    phoenix health issues    day trips from phoenix    rocky point    phoenix seniors    
  

    Getty  

              
 
 Nov 14 2011  For years many Arizonans, Californians, New Mexicans and Texans with convenient access to Mexican border towns have made the trip across the various borders to buy prescribed drugs. 

 Why Do People Go to Mexico to Buy Prescription Drugs? 
There are basically only three reasons why people would consider going to Mexico to purchase their prescription drugs.

 
 Some prescription drugs are cheaper in Mexico than they are in the United States.
 Some drugs may be difficult to get locally. 
 Some drugs that require a prescription in the U.S. are sold over the counter in Mexico.
 
 
Whatever your reasons for wanting to buy prescription drugs in Mexico, if you are considering making the trip there are some important things you ought to know. 

 Is Buying Drugs in Mexico Illegal Under U.S. Laws? 

The interstate shipment, including importation, of unapproved new drugs is prohibited in the U.S. "Unapproved" drugs are any medicines that have not received the FDA's approval and include foreign-made versions of U.S.-approved drugs. 
 
Controlled substances including, but not limited to, tranquilizers and pain killers, are under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration.
 
In either case, the import of a personal supply of any drug brought over the border must be declared to U.S. Customs, and you should have a valid prescription from a U.S doctor with you. The prescription must be in your own name.

 Is Buying Drugs in Mexico Illegal Under Mexican Laws? 

Some drugs, including controlled substances, may not be purchased in Mexico without a valid prescription from a Mexican doctor. Other laws may also apply. 

 Know the Risks When You Buy Prescription Drugs in Mexico 
 
 Drugs you purchase in Mexico may be counterfeit. The FDA estimates that a significant amount of drugs available in Mexico may be counterfeit (Source:  FDA Initiative to Combat Counterfeit Drugs , last updated 9/10/2009).
 Check to make sure you are dealing with a licensed pharmacy. Mexican pharmacy employees may not have any medical training.
 If the drugs you purchase in Mexico are worthless or do you harm, you may have difficulty resolving your complaint.
 You might not be able to determine where the drugs were manufactured or how they were handled. 
 Dosages and drug names may be quite different than they are in the U.S. and the amount of active ingredients may be different than in the U.S. Not all drugs will come with instructions for use, and if they do, they’ll likely be in Spanish. 
 Breaking U.S. laws regarding importation of foreign drugs may lead to your arrest in the U.S. Do not lie to U.S. Customs.
 Breaking Mexican laws regarding purchasing of drugs may lead to your arrest in Mexico. Penalties for drug offenses are strict, and convicted offenders can expect large fines and jail sentences up to 25 years. Unknowingly breaking the law, or getting a Mexican prescription, even unknowingly, from someone who is not authorized to issue it does not excuse a U.S. citizen from prosecution in Mexico.
 You must declare the drugs at Customs upon your return. Customs permits people to bring back reasonable amounts of medications for personal use, but does not allow stockpiling or purchasing large amounts of drugs for what will be assumed is a commercial or resale purpose. If the medication is a controlled substance, a reasonable amount means up to 50 combined total doses. 
 If you do bring a prescription drug that is a controlled substance into the U.S. from Mexico, it must be for legitimate personal medical use. It should be in the original container, which must identify the substance and the name and address of the dispenser.
  
 If you lie to customs about having drugs and you are caught, the consequences could be simple, like having the drugs taken away, or very serious, such as going to jail. 

 

Keep in mind that buying drugs on the Internet or by mail from other countries is very risky, and this article does not address that situation at all. You can learn more about that from the FDA online.


 Get Current Information About Regulations on Importing Drugs From Mexico 

 U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
 

 U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, Phoenix Field Office 
 

 U.S. Department of Justice Drug Enforcement Administration Personal Exemption Information 
 
 U. S. Customs and Border Protection 

 
 U. S. Department of State, Consular Information on Mexico 

 Disclaimer: Laws are constantly changing, and the guidelines mentioned here are subject to change without notice. I am not a doctor, nor am I a U.S. Customs official, DEA official, or FDA official. If you have questions about the drugs you are taking, contact a physician. If you have questions about current laws regarding importation of drugs, contact U.S. Customs. 
 Disclaimer: You may see advertisements on this page for cheap drugs from other countries or online stores. I am unable to control the ads on this page, and the appearance of such an ad here does not constitute my endorsement of the company or the product.
 
 


 
		 
  Buying Drugs in Arizona    Buying Prescription Drugs in Arizona    Maricopa County Drug Card    CoppeRx: Arizona's Drug Plan      Health Resources    Phoenix Area Health & Hospital Resources    Buying Medications Online    Medicare Drug Plan Step By Step      
  Related Articles    Prescription Drugs From Mexico    Marian Eure RN On - Buying prescription drugs.    Drug Money (photos) [Analysis]    Borderline Drugs    War on Drugs: News From the Front     
	        Judy Hedding  Phoenix Guide    Sign up for My Newsletter      Headlines    Forum     
 
 
        
  
 
 Related Searches  drug enforcement administration   drugs in mexico   unapproved drugs   whatever your reasons   pain killers   going to mexico     Explore Phoenix   Must Reads    The Big List: Holiday Festivals    Holiday Concerts & Shows    December Events in Phoenix    Phoenix Christmas Planner    Featured Event: Tempe Festival of Arts  
  Most Popular    Black Friday    Tempe Holiday Festivals    Top 15 Phoenix Attractions    Glendale Glitters    Christmas Events  
     See More About:    phoenix health issues    day trips from phoenix    rocky point    phoenix seniors       By Category    Attractions and Events    Food and Drink    Sports and Recreation    Moving to Phoenix    Phoenix Facts and Fiction    Cities, Government, Laws    Weather, Plants, Animals    Jobs and Employment    Homes and Rentals    Schools and Colleges    Lifestyles and Families    Shopping, Services, Media    Maps, Driving and Transport    Resorts, Hotels, Motels    Phoenix Photo Galleries  
              Phoenix      About.com    Cities & Towns    Phoenix    Lifestyles and Families    Health Care   Buying Prescription Drugs in Mexico - Buying Drugs Over the Mexican Border in Nogales      Most Popular    Latest Articles    RSS          Advertise on About.com    Our Story    News & Events    Work at About    SiteMap    All Topics    Reprints    Help      Write for About    User Agreement    Ethics Policy    Patent Info.    Privacy Policy    Your Ad Choices      ©2011 About.com. All rights reserved.   A part of  The New York Times Company .