Welcome to Dimension Z Golf 
   
   
   
    
    
    

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 



 


 
  
            
                

 
   Get a Free Lob Wedge    Z-Out Hybrid Discount    Web Store    Shopping Cart    Contact Us   
  


  

 

                   
                   

                   
                   
                  		 
			 
				 
					 
													 Main Menu 
											   Home    Product Registration    Fitting Process    Partner Fitting Locations    Dimension Z Golf Forum    Integrated Tuning Process    Dimension Z News    About Us    Testimonials    Golf News Feeds    Product Brochure    Contact Us   					 
				 
			 
		 
			 
			 
				 
					 
											 
 
   Username  
  
 Password    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Remember me  
   
   Forgot login?   
  No account yet?  Register   
  					 
				 
			 
		 
			 
			 
				 
					 
													 Dimension Z Golf Newsletter 
											  
  
   How many eyes has a typical person? (ex: 1)         
  Name:     
  Email:     
        
					 
				 
			 
		 
			 
			 
				 
					 
													 RSS Syndication 
											 
	 Dimension Z Golf News 					 
				 
			 
		 
	
                   
                   
          

               
              



                       
                        
Home
  
                       
                


                                          
						
							
         
                

           
                       
                       

 
 
	 
					 
		
 
 
		 
					Dimension Z Golf 1-888-271-1889			 
	
		 
	  	 
	
		 
	  	 
	
		 
	  	 
		 
 
 




 
 
 Having trouble viewing this website?  This site supports the following web browsers: IE 7 or greater, Mozilla Firefox 4.0 or greater, Safari 4.0, Google Chrome and Opera 9.0 or greater. Additionally, Javascript and cookies must be enabled. Thank you for your support of Dimension Z Golf. 
  Dimension Z Golf has moved its corporate facility to the following address:  6531 W 56th Ave. #31, Arvada, CO 80002  
   
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Dimension Z Golf is the premier manufacturer of custom irons, woods, wedges and putters! For more information call us toll free at 888.271.1889   
  All of our products are professionally assembled by American workers in our factory in Colorado. This further guarantees that our products meet our strict specifications. 
 
 
 
 
 Register on our website to make online purchases, receive our  newsletter, and participate in our golf forum. Like us on  Facebook  and  participate in our latest contest to name our newest product.  The  winner of the contest will receive the product free.  At Dimension Z  we’re real people who enjoy talking with real golfers, feel free to  phone us for more information about our company or our products. Our  toll-free number is 888-271-1889. 
  Dimension Z   Golf  is committed to providing the highest quality precision manufactured  golf equipment to players around the world. Through professional  club-fitting and proven match point manufacturing, only Dimension Z Golf  is prepared to provide you with tour quality equipment. Not only do we  design and manufacture our own line of golf equipment, but we also  re-manufacture other select brands, and continue to lead the industry in  product manufacturing and development. To learn more about our  equipment, fitting and manufacturing please feel free to browse the  website or contact us toll free at 888.271.1889.          
 



 
 
		 
		 
 

 
	 
		 
		 
										 
				
 
 
		 
					To be Authentic!			 
	
		 
	  	 
	
		 
	  	 
	
		 
	  	 
		 
 
 

 
	 
		
			Written by Brad Ingermann		
		  
	 
 

 
	 
		Monday, 15 August 2011 18:46	 
 


 
 
 au·then·tic? ?[aw-then-tik] 
 adjective 1. not false or copied; genuine; real: an authentic antique. 2. having the origin supported by unquestionable evidence; authenticated; verified: an authentic document of the Middle Ages; an authentic work of the old master. 3. entitled to acceptance or belief because of agreement with known facts or experience; reliable; trustworthy: an authentic report on poverty in Africa. 4. Law . executed with all due formalities: an authentic deed.  What does it mean for a company to be authentic? For a brand or corporation to be authentic is difficult. Entrenched in corporate America, is the idea that marketing is king, and say whatever needs to be said to sell units. This has caused a lot of dishonest claims to be made by most Golf equipment manufacturers. For example, the most common marketing claim for manufacturers to sell irons is to claim “distance”. "Buy ours and you will hit the ball further". That claim is not necessarily false, however the reason you are hitting the ball further is because they have “power lofted” the clubs. Instead of a 48 degree pitching wedge you were given a 46 degree, and so on. Less club loft means more distance. If you are old enough to remember when pitching wedges were 52 degrees then you have long lived the marketing strategy of “power lofting”. Today, most manufacturers are selling pitching wedges at 45 degrees, almost two clubs stronger than the original loft structure of golf clubs. No wonder you hit that pitching wedge so far, it is really a traditional 8 iron. 
 At Dimension Z Golf it is important that we are authentic. To be true to the golfer and not deceive consumers with false marketing. We strive to educate the golfer about equipment and how to make purchasing decisions that are going to have a positive impact on their game. When you consult the experts at Dimension Z you can be sure that you are going to get the straight scoop on what your needs truly are. I can’t tell you how many times I have had a customer ask me to fit them for a driver and we discover together that a new driver isn’t necessary. Of course, I like to sell drivers, but if it is not going to improve the player’s results, then neither of us “wins” if the sale is made on a false premise. Big brands operate exactly the opposite of this. They want to sell as many drivers as possible and deception in advertising is just how it’s done. Longer, straighter, better, faster, are all buzz words of the marketing machine. Want a better game, spend more money! This is really one of the reasons that the game of golf has struggled to grow. It a hard game, its expensive, it takes time to learn and be “good”. If more companies were authentic the game would be better off. I know I’m being idealistic however, if you are looking for truth in marketing come talk to us at Dimension Z Golf. We are here to help.              
 

 
	 
		Last Updated on Friday, 02 September 2011 13:45	 
 


 
 
 
								
		 
		 
	 
 

 

                        
                       
           
          

                       
                       

                      
                       
                       
                      		 
			 
				 
					 
													 Search Our Store 
											 
	 
		 	 
	 
	 
	 
 					 
				 
			 
		 
			 
			 
				 
					 
													 Categories 
											    Drivers, Fairway & Utility Metal        Z Series Irons        Precizion Wedges & Putters        Stock & High Performance Shafts        Bags & Apparel        Dimension Z Golf Gift Certificates.    					 
				 
			 
		 
			 
			 
				 
					 
													 Dimension Z's Clubtech's Channel   
											 
	 
			 
			  
		 
			 
		 
			 
							 
									 
					Golf Club Length (Altitude Sports) 
								 
								 
									 
					The Right Steps to Purchase a New Set of Clubs 
								 
								 
									 
					Frequency Matching and Match Point Manufacturing 
								 
								 
									 
					DZ and the Golf Professional Altitude TV 
								 
								 
									 
					Choosing the Right Golf Shaft - (Altitude Sports) 
								 
								 
									 
					Custom Fitting Golf Clubs (Altitude Sports) 
								 
								 
									 
					Putter Fitting - Optic Alignment System (Altitude Sports) 
								 
								 
									 
					Hybrid Golf Club/Utility Metal (Altitude Sports) 
								 
							 
		 
		 
	 
 
					 
				 
			 
		 
			 
			 
				 
					 
													 Order History 
											


    
	 Your Cart is currently empty. 
 
	    



					 
				 
			 
		 
	
                       
                       

          
  
         
   

 
 
 
All Rights Reserved 2011  
Design:  SLS Design