HealthandAge | Medical Articles and News for Health in Aging > Live Well, Live Longer 
	 
	    
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
  
    
     
     
     
   
 

 

 
   
     
       
        
		 
   
    
       
   
       
 
        

       
                

   
       
           
             
               HealthandAge 
             
            
           
             
              Not a member yet?    Member?                
            

           
   
       Search 
    
      
  
   
  Search this site:  
  
 
   
   
 
   Or  click here to browse the list of diseases  
 

  
 
       
 
         
       
      
       
                    
                         	 
                	 
                  		   Home  
  Conditions & Diseases  
  Wellness  
  Patient Guide  
  News  
  H&A Blog  
  Questions & Answers  
                 	 
            
            
                             
            	 
                
                  	  
             
          
           
      		 
             
            
                    	
             
          
                   
                     
                         Welcome 
                         We are dedicated to providing accurate, scientifically-based and reliable information
                        targeted to audiences that are 55 and older. Learn about the latest disease and condition information prepared by our staff of physicians, pharmacists, nutritionists 
                        and nurses. 
                	 
                 
                  
                	 
                         Nutrition 
                         Nourishing our bodies for maximum health becomes more important as we get older. We provide nutrition, diet advice and recommendations 
                        for specific conditions including diabetes, heart disease and weight gain. 
                	 
                 
                  
                	 
                         Diabetes 
                         The most common type of diabetes is Type 2 or adult onset disease. Diabetes affects the body's ability to use blood sugar for energy. It is 
                        common for Type 2 diabetes to develop as you get older. 
                	 
                 
                  
                	 
                         Fitness 
                         Are you ready to make some changes for overall good health and well-being? Visit the Welness section to learn what medical 
                        experts are saying about emotional health, positive aging strategies, diet and exercise. 
                	 
                 
                  
                	 
                         Oncology 
                         When you or a family member is diagnosed with cancer, the quest for up-to-date, scientific information is important. We understand that every
                        patient is important, and strive to give you the knowledge you need to talk to your doctor. 
                	 
                 

          	   
                
      
      
  
       
       	  
             
               
   
       Conditions & Diseases 
    
      Select a disease from the selection box below to learn more about specific diseases of interest: 
 
  
 
   Alternative Medicine  Alzheimer and Dementia  Arthritis and Gout  Bladder and Kidney Problems  Cancer  Cholesterol  Depression  Diabetes  Digestive Problems  Endocrine disorders  Epilepsy  Eye Disorders  Falls and other Injuries  Hearing Problems  Heart Disease  Infections  Information for Caregivers  Neurological disorders  Oral diseases  Osteoarthritis   Osteoporosis  Pain and Headache  Parkinson's disease  Respiratory Diseases  Skin Problems  Sleep Disorders  Stroke  Thyroid Problems  Weight Problems  Other Conditions    
       
 
 
   
       H&A Blog 
    
       
       
          Elder Abuse and the Importance of Bruising  
       
       
         November 17, 2011 
       
      
       
          Balance Anxiety: Life as a Black Diamond Ski Trial  
       
       
         October 19, 2011 
       
      
       
          Why Seniors Avoid the Flu Vaccine  
       
       
         October 5, 2011 
       
          Ý More   
       
 
 
   
       News 
    
       
       
          Weight Gain in Middle Age Reduces Odds of Healthy Survival in Women  
       
       
         November 1, 2011 
       
      
       
          Does a High White Blood Cell Count Mean Cancer?   
       
       
         February 28, 2011 
       
      
       
          Weight Loss Surgery Reduces Diabetes Medication Use  
       
       
         February 8, 2011 
       
          Ý More   
       
 
 
   
       Frequently Asked Questions 
    
       
       
          How is Small Vessel Disease treated?  
       
       
         August 12, 2011 
       
      
       
          Recurring Thyroid Cysts  
       
       
         June 29, 2011 
       
      
       
          Cracked tongue: Why is my tongue cracked?  
       
       
         May 14, 2011 
       
          Ý More   
       
 
             
         
        
                    
   
    
       
   
       
 
 
   
    
           
 
       
 
 
               

             
                   
   
    
      
 
    Copyright © 2011. All rights reserved. [  Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Use  |  About Us  |  Site Map   |  NovoViva.fr  |  Contact  ]
   
 
 
       
 
 
   
    
      
 
  Prevention  
 
  Emotional Health  
  Fitness  
  Men's Health  
  Nutrition  
  Positive Aging  
  Women's Health  
 
 
 
  Conditions & Diseases  
 
  Arthritis and Gout  
  Cancer  
  Cholesterol  
  Eye Disorders  
  Bladder Problems   
  Osteoporosis  
  Pain and Headache  
 
 
 
  Patient Guide (How To)  
 
  High White Blood Cell Count  
  Cracked Tongue  
  Hip Fracture: Surviving a Hip Fracture  
  Cholesterol Diet  
  Small Vessel Disease  
  Thigh Pain  
 
 
 
 Services 
 
  Press Releases  
  Books  
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
   
    
      
    This site complies
with
the   HONcode
standard for trustworthy health  information:  Verify here .
 


 
The contents such as text, graphics, images, and other material on this
site are for informational purposes only, and is not a substitute for
medical advice, diagnosis or treatment provided by a qualified health
care provider.  Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health
provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
Never disregard professional medical advice or delay in seeking it
because of something you have read on this website!
  
 This site is intended for non healthcare professionals. For the professional site, please  click here