Healthy Aging® . The best source for positive aging information. 

 
  

  
  
  
  
  

  
 
 
 

 
 
 
  
  
   
      
      
      
   
   
      
      
   
   
      
         
            
              Home  
              Healthy Aging® 
               
                  Health Care  
                  Physical Fitness  
                  Diet  
                  Mental Wellness  
                  Social Wellness  
                  Financial Fitness  
                  Retirement Chart  
               
             
              About Us 
               
                  Who we are  
                  Trademark  
               
             
              Magazine  
              Events 
               
                  Event Calendar  
               
             
              Health Educators 
               
                  Promotions  
                  Seminars  
                  Free Stuff  
                  Caregivers Resources  
               
             
              Public Service 
               
                  State by State Links  
                  Links and Related Sites  
               
             
              Resources 
               
                  Brochures  
                  Educational Kits  
                  Videos / DVD's  
                  Books  
                  Order Online  
                  Free Stuff  
                  Fun Stuff  
               
             
              Contact  
            
            
            
            
         
        
      
   
   
      
      
   

   
       
       
   
  
   
      
       
          Welcome to the Healthy Aging® Web site. We're the official site of Healthy Aging®, the on line magazine, and multi-media platform for positive information on aging. Healthy Aging® is a national ongoing health effort designed to broaden awareness of the positive aspects of aging and to provide information and inspiration for adults, age 50+, to improve their physical, mental, social, and financial fitness. Healthy Aging® is a U.S. registered trade and service mark. Healthy Aging® represents the best there is about aging.  
       
       
        
       
      
       
   
   
      
         
              Healthy Aging® Food - the best of food for those who want to age healthfully and  enjoy good food  
           
         
         
             Healthy Aging® Financial Wellness - because there’s lots of living yet to do!  Click here for info and ideas… 
         
         
             Healthy Aging® Mental Wellness - Keep up the spirit…use it or lose it 
         
         
             Healthy Aging® Fitness - I can do it!  It’s never too late to start! 
         
      
      
        
         
            
                
               
               
               
			   
               
               
                            
  
  
         
      
      
   
  
   
      
      
   
   
     
       
        
         
             
            
            
             
                
                 
                   
                      News  
                      Healthy Aging® Tip of the Week  
                      Featured Products  
                     
                   
                   
                     
                           Latest News...  
                          
                         
                       Healthy Aging Magazine: Fall issue is here! Advertisers: Check out  media kit . 
                        
                       Opinion:  Should Black Friday extend to Thanksgiving Eve?  
                        7 Black Friday Purchase Pitfalls to Avoid    
                         
                         
                        Boomer Values Realignment Study  Reveals  Consumerism  
                        is Giving Way to Relationship Building 
                         
                         
                         
                        
                       Benefits of nut  consumption for people with abdominal obesity, high blood sugar, high blood  pressure.  Study released.   
                         
                         
                         
                        
                        Volunteer Vacations:  Visit New Places, Connect, and Give Back.  
                       Ideas and resources for planning your next rewarding getaway.  
                         
                         
                          
                        Fall Recipe Ideas to Share with Friends and Familiy ... Social wellness to keep you going and to keep everyone happy. Try the Grilled Gazpacho Salad with Shrimp from Les Dames d'Escoffier cookbook as featured in Healthy Aging Magazine - Fall Issue  
                         
                        
                       Holidays are coming... not too late to get rid of that FAT STOMACH so you can fit into your party duds. 
                        Tips for how to do it    
                         
                         
                          
                       Older Surfers Following Their Passion... Healthy Aging Magazine article by Roy Earnest...  Surfing for Life   
                         
                         
                        WHO ME RETIRE? NOT EVEN IN MY VOCABULARY...   
                          
                       Where to spend the next phase of your life? How about Provence, France?  Healthy Aging Magazine feature article ...Taking Root in Provence by Anne Marie Simons  
                         
                         
                          
                        HANDING DOWN YOUR FAMILY HISTORY TO FUTURE GENERATIONS ...  
                       Keeping family history alive without computers, cell phones  or social media. How? The old fashioned way by talking about it... Healthy Aging Magazine article by Neal Turnage Webster  
                        Healthy Aging Tips . ..10 great ideas to get you going  
                       More ideas.  Resources to order.   
                        How to Keep Listeria Out of Your Kitchen ... Tips from FDA  
                         
                         
                         
                         
                        
                        Lung Cancer Rates Decline   
                        10 Tips to Quit Smoking or Drinking  from  www.selfhelpworks.com  
                         
                         
                       Computer Got You Sore? Have a Mobility Issue?  Exercise While Sitting in Your Chair with 'Chair Dancing'   
                       Chair Dancing Fitness Program Creator Shares Ideas... 
                         
                        Clean Up Your  Diet  With A Few Simple Tweaks.  
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         Get Fit .  How 3 people did it'. Read their stories and see their training schedules in  Healthy Aging ®  Magazine.   
                         
                         
                         
                        
                        5 Myths of Heart Disease  and What You Need to Know 
                       Do you take care of your heart as well as you do your car?   
                         
                         
                         
                          
                        Tips for Caring for A  Loved One  with Alzheimer’s 
                         
                         
                         
                        
                        9 Ways To  Reduce Your Gas Addiction  from Consumer Savings  Expert, Andrea Woroch 
                         
                         
                         
                         
                       OTHER LATEST NEWS 
                         
                          
                       Calling all Foodies! Save up to 80% at annual  Emile Henry Warehouse sale  in Delaware, Dec. 9, 10 and 11. Receive special gift when you use the  Healthy Aging ®  Visa Card.   
                        
                         
                       
                        
                           
                        
                         
                     
                     
                        Healthy Aging® Tip of the Week   ... 
                        Share Your Tips!  Click here to see tips   
                       HAVE A TIP FOR POSITIVE AGING? Say no to retirement and YES to what's next.  What keeps you going? What is YOUR tip? Is your secret physical fitness, diet, mental wellness, belief in a higher being, financial wellness or just being surrounded by good people? 
                       SUBMIT HERE:  HERE'S MY TIP  
                       Have senior discounts to offer?  Contact us  to post on Free Stuff  
                       Healthy Aging Readers submissions:  My Secret for Positive Aging.   
                         
                        
                       
                     
                     
                       Featured Products ... 
                         
                          
                       INTRODUCING  THE HEALTHY AGING® VISA CARD   
                       Say no to retirement and yes to Healthy Aging®.  Get started  with the Healthy Aging® Visa Platinum Rewards card!  Click on the card to apply and learn about the benefits.  
                         
                       BOOK:             Healthy Aging®...Inspirational Letters from Americans 
                        Today's views on aging are told by Americans from across the nation.             Adults, ages 50-plus, share their secrets for Healthy Aging®.             Candid, original, inspirational -- a must-read for every gerontologist,             doctor, or anyone who needs a bit of inspiration as they head toward             older ages. It's a great gift or fundraiser for your organization. Quantity             discounts are available.  Click here to purchase   
                         
                              
                       September is Healthy Aging Month! Click here for  more details, sponsorship opportunities...   
                        Write from the Heart Workshop Kit now available! If you work with older adults or intergenerational groups, The Healthy Aging® Write from the Heart Workshop Kit can help you lead a session on  creative writing.  read more   
                        Healthy Aging® Brochure  available.             This 16-page brochure is an easy-to-read, colorful source of upbeat             and useful information on the issues of growing older.  read more   
                       May is Older Americans Month! May is the official month during which we acknowledge, as           a nation, the extraordinary contributions of our 34 million older Americans.           Older Americans Month also presents us with the opportunity to draw attention           to the remarkable longevity of our population and to the challenges and           opportunities which will accompany population aging in the next millennium.  read more   
                       Having a Health Fair? We can help....order your health promotional items and resources  here!   
                       Healthy Aging® DVD Now Available! 
                      Create a Healthy Aging Seminar with DVD...
                       Health Educators:  The Healthy Aging® DVD makes the perfect tool to  kick off sessions on positive aging.  Great music by Tom Chapin,  incredible camera work and upbeat, positive information by national  authorities and real people who share their thoughts on aging.  Easy to  use.  Order now!   Click here to order   
                     
                   
                 
                
                
  
                 Fall  issue of Healthy Aging Magazine here!   
                      
                  Sign up to have it delivered to your inbox for free   
                  Advertising  .......... Media Kit                   
                  Healthy Aging® Magazine  
                 Feature story. Sarah Ferguson, Duchess of York, Finding Sarah book excerpt. Older surfers still following their passion. Volunteer Vacations. Tips for Online Dating, Recipes from the Kitchen Garden and more...  Read the full issue free...  
                 Follow us on new  Twitter for Healthy Aging Magazine   
                 Follow us on  Facebook     
                      
                     
                 
                      
                    Become our fan on Facebook!                  
                      
                                   
                   
                                      
                
                   
                         
                         
    
                          click here to order brochures  
                        and other resources!    
                   
                  
                   
                       
                   
                  
               
                    
                 Say no to retirement and yes to Healthy Aging®. Get started with the  Healthy Aging® Visa Platinum Rewards  card!  Click on the card to apply and learn about the benefits.  Special card member deals   
                 
                  
                   
                          
                   
                   
                        
                   
                 
                    
             
             
                  
                 
                   
                     
             
             
                 
                        
             
            
         
       
         
     
       
   
   
      
         
            
               
                 ©2010 - 2011  
               
               
                 PO Box 442 -         Unionville, PA 19375 - 610-793-0979 (phone) info@healthyaging.net 
               
               
                 Healthy Aging® is a US registered trademark owned by CWI Productions, Inc.  
               
               
                   
               
               
                   
               
               
                   
               
               
                 Site designed by  Pabodie Design Studios