Free Articles by Aleksandr Kavokin, MD,PhD at ArticleSet.com 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
     
	 
	  
 

 
	 
		 
			 Online Articles 
			 
			  
 
   
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
       
     
   
   
    
   
   
    Custom Search
   
 
			 
		 
	 		
	 
		 
					
			    Aleksandr Kavokin, MD,PhD 
  About Aleksandr Kavokin, MD,PhD Aleksandr Kavokin, MD,PhD
  http://www.geocities.com/aging_rejuvenation/ 
  http://www.geocities.com/usmle_test 
  aging_rejuvenation@yahoo.com 
  
  
  
    How to spot bad mole?  
	   This morning you took a bath. The warm water feels so nice during the cold winter day. There was some funny skin itching on you back. You looked in the mirror, turned this way , that way. 
	     
	      Date Posted: December 31, 2004    Pain in the butt. How to deal with hemorrhoids?  
	   This is very sensitive area of your body. Too private. Nobody likes when something is wrong over there. However it happens.Hemorrhoids occur practically in everyone. Though hemorrhoids cause problems in 1 out of 25 people. 
	     
	      Date Posted: December 31, 2004    Death, Aging, Rejuvenation (Part 4)  
	   Biological clock Obviously you need biological clock to time and alarm the point when you need to die and when you need to age. Aging is the same death as in those one-day butterflies, but a little bit prolonged one. 
	     
	      Date Posted: July 28, 2004    Death, Aging, Rejuvenation (Part 3)  
	   Aging How did aging appeared? If mechanism of Death was chosen by evolution, how was aging chosen? Why for example at certain age animals do not die instantly and just give the room for the next generation. 
	     
	      Date Posted: July 28, 2004    Death, Aging, Rejuvenation (Part 2)  
	   Death Death. Why it happens? Why do we die? Why do animals die? Why do plants die? What is the need of this? In my opinion mechanism of death was selected during Evolution. 
	     
	      Date Posted: July 28, 2004    Death, Aging, Rejuvenation (Part 1)  
	   I would like to raise a question: Is Rejuvenation possible and how to approach it? This is just my own opinion about possible procedures. I used certain techniques based on a theory. 
	     
	      Date Posted: July 28, 2004 			
 				
		 
		 
			
		 Menu 
 Home   Top Articles  Top Authors  Submit Article  ArticleSet Blog  Link To Us  Article Feeds  Terms  Contact 
		 Featured 
		   Best Affiliate Programs   
			 Language 
			              
			 Categories 
			 Auto and Trucks  Business and Finance  Computers and Internet  Education  Family  Food and Drink  Gadgets and Gizmos  Health  Hobbies  Home Improvement  Humor  Kids and Teens  Legal  Marketing  Men  Music and Movies  Online Business  Parenting  Pets and Animals  Politics and Government  Recreation and Sports  Relationships  Religion and Faith  Science and Technology  Self Improvement  Site Promotion  Travel and Leisure  Web Development  Women  Writing   
					 
	 
	 
		 
			 Home  Top Articles  Top Authors  Submit Article  Link To Us  Article Feeds  Terms  Contact 	 	
		 © 2007 ArticleSet.com is a Member of the  Straight Thinking  Network. Main Partner:  ContentLog.com 
		 
	 
	  
  
	
  
  

      website statistics