Science/AAAS | Science's SAGE KE: Archive site of the Science of Aging Knowledge Environment 

	
	
		 
	 
	  
	
		
	
		  

	        
  


 

		
  
   
        
        

 
        
          

          
        
	
	  
	
	  
	
	
	

















  
  
    


	

	 
	 
	  
  

		
	      
          
  
  

	
		
	

 


	
 

 




	
		
	




	
		





 
	  
	 Jump to:
		 Page Content , 
		 Section Navigation ,
		
		 Site Navigation , 
		 Site Search , 
		 Account Information , or
		 Site Tools .
	 
 

 
	
	Note to users. If you're seeing this message, it means that your browser cannot find this page's style/presentation instructions -- or possibly that you are using a browser that does not support current Web standards.   Find out more  about why this message is appearing, and what you can do to make your experience of our site the best it can be.
 



 

	 
		
		

  



		
	 

	 

	
	 
			
  		
            			
             
               				
                 Science/AAAS  
               				
               				
                
                  		
                    AAAS.ORG  
                  		
                    Feedback  
                  		
                    Help  
                  		
                    Librarians  
                  	
                
               				
                
                  		
                   
                                         
                      
                        				 
                           					
                            Science Magazine 
                           					
                            Daily News 
                           					
                            Science Signaling 
                            Science Translational Medicine 
                           					
                            SAGE KE 
                           					
                            Science Careers 
                           					
                            All HighWire Journals 
                           				 
                        				 
                        				 
                        				 Advanced 
                        			
                      
                     		
                   
                  	
                
               				
                
				Guest    Alerts  |  Access Rights  |  My Account  |  Sign In 
                
               				
		 
			  News  
			  Science Journals  
			  Careers  	
			  Communities  
			  Multimedia  		
			  Topics  
		 
		 Subscribe 
               
                     	                
 			
	
		
						
			
		
			
			
			
			
			
			
		



	
		
			 
				 
				
					  SAGE KE Home  
					  Issue Archive  
					  Literature & News  
					  Community  
					  Resources  
					  Highlights  
					  About SAGE KE  
				 
			 

	


		
	


               
               			
             		
  			
			
			 
				
        
         Home  > SAGE KE Home
        
	
			 
			
			      			
            		
          	

		

	
		 
		
                
                 
		




		
	                         
	                                 
	                 
          




							

							


























































	


	





	
























































	
		

					 
						
						 



                                                        
                                                         
                                                                 
                                                                         Search SAGE KE 

                                                                         
                                                                         
                                                                         
                                                                                 
                                                                                         Keyword Search 

                                                                                         Enter Keyword 
											  
                                                                                        
											 Search Type 
						
											 
												 Title 
												 Title/Abstract 
												 Full text 
												 Author 
											 


									 
                                                                                
										 
                                                                                
									

                                                                                           
                                                                                 
                                                                         

                                                                         
                                                                                  Advanced 
  
                                                                         
                                                                 
                                                         
                                                        




							 
								 About SAGE KE 
								 From October 2001 to June 2006, when it ceased regular publication, the Science of Aging Knowledge Environment (SAGE KE) provided coverage of developments in the field of aging. We invite readers to search and browse SAGE KE's content from that period on this archive site. 

									 
										  More about SAGE KE  
									 
							 

 
								  
								 			
									 New in Science: 
									 
										

  Special Section: Epigenetics  

  Science Podcast  


 
		
  More from Science  

 

 
 

 

  

 
 New on Science Signaling 
 



  Getting Excited About Glia  
  Blocking All Escape Routes  
  Submit Your Research  




  More from Science Signaling  
 
 

 


 
  
 



 Career Tools: 
 
  Find a Job  
  Find a Grant  
  Find a Meeting/Event  
 




 New Articles on Careers 
 



  Working with Industry Under a Microscope   

  Ghostwriters in the Medical Literature  


 

  More Careers Articles  
 

 
 



						 
						

						 
					 


	


                

	                                         
	                                                
	                                                 
							  
			

		
	














 


 SAGE KE Archive Site 		


 
								 

								 
								
								 
									 
						
  
                                                                                        
                                                                                         The SAGE KE logo -- a lotus flower in full bloom, framing a human profile -- was designed to embody the notion of human life at its fullest potential.  [ Read more. ] 

                                                                                 

                                                                                 
                                                                                         
                                                                                                 In Tidbits 
                                                                                                 

"To keep the heart unwrinkled, to be hopeful, kindly, cheerful, reverent--that is to triumph over old age." ( posted 26 November 2003 )

 

                                                                                                  Browse More Tidbits »  
                                                                                         
                                                                                 

										
									 
									 


 
 Welcome to the Science of Aging Knowledge Environment (SAGE KE) Archive Site 
 
From October 2001 to June 2006, Science's SAGE KE provided news, reviews, commentaries, disease case studies, databases, and other resources pertaining to aging-related research.  Although SAGE KE has now ceased publication, we invite you to search and browse the article content on this archive site.  Access SAGE KE archive for free as a  AAAS member  or by  registering .
 
 


 

 
  Browse Our Issue Archive  
 Find out more about the main sections:
 
  In Literature & News  
  In Community  
  In Resources  
  In Highlights  
 
 
  SAGE KE Site Help  
 

 

						
									 
								 
							 

  
						
                                                         

                                                                 In Literature & News 

 All original article content written for SAGE KE during the site's 2001-2006 publication period is accessible in this section. 


                                                                 
                                                                         Browse Our Articles 
                                                                         Visit our  Literature & News  main page to read News, Review, and other articles from SAGE KE's nearly five-year publication history. 

                                                                         Issue Archive 
                                                                         A  chronological catalog  of SAGE KE's weekly article content. 

                                                                         Featured in Science 
                                                                         Find  SAGE KE items  that have been featured on the print magazine's Science Online page. 

 

 Note:  The Virtual Journal feature of this section of SAGE KE has been discontinued. 



  
                                                                 In Community 

                                                                 

                                                                         Bulletin Board 
 Postings from the online  community forum  maintained on SAGE KE from 2001 to 2006. 

                                                                         Discussions 
                                                                          Electronic letters  responding to SAGE KE content. 

                                                                 

 Note:  The Directory feature of this section of SAGE KE has been discontinued.



  
                                                                 In Resources 

                                                                 
                                                                         Experimental Resources 
                                                                         Write-ups of  Genetically Altered Mice  and  Experimental Rodent Strains  used in aging-related research. 

                                                                         Teaching Resources 
                                                                          Presentations, course outlines, and other items  useful in education on aging-related research. 

                                                                         Bibliography of Books 
                                                                          Reviews of aging-related writings , from technical monographs to books aimed at a lay audience. 

                                                                         Aging in the Arts 
                                                                         Depictions of aging in  art and literature , from the classical to the contemporary. 

 

 Note:  The Meetings and Events, Funding Sources, Web Links, and Jobs and Résumés features of this section of SAGE KE have been discontinued. 



  
                                                                 Highlights 



                                                                 
                                                                         Genes/Interventions Database 
                                                                         The database, which resided on the SAGE KE site from 2001 to 2006, is currently being rebuilt at  the University of Washington .  We will post a notice on this site when the new database is up and running. 

                                                                         Tidbits 
                                                                          Factlets and quips  on getting old. 

 

 Note:  The Trainee Resources and Knowledge Map features of this section of SAGE KE have been discontinued. 




                                                         



 

                				





                				

					
					
                                                 
                                                

                                                 
                                         

					
	
                                         
                                                
                                                
                                                 
                                                         

  


 
                                                         

  


 
                                                          To Advertise    |    Find Products  
							
							

                                                        
	


                                                 
                                                
                                                
                                         
	

				 
			 

		 
		
					

		 

		

		
		
			 
       				 
				Science of Aging Knowledge Environment. ISSN 1539-6150
       				 
       			 
		
		
		 

			  
			  

			 
				 News   |  
				 Science Journals   | 
				 Careers   |  
				 Blogs and Communities   |  
				 Multimedia   | 
				 Collections   | 
 				 Help   | 
				 Site Map   | 
				 RSS 
			 

			 
				 Subscribe   |  
				 Feedback   |  
				 Privacy / Legal   | 
				 About Us   | 
				 Advertise With Us   |  
				 Contact Us  
			 

				  © 2011 American Association for the Advancement of Science. All Rights Reserved . AAAS is a partner of  HINARI ,  AGORA ,  OARE ,  eIFL ,  PatientInform ,  CrossRef , and  COUNTER . 

                         You have reached the bottom of the page.  Back to top