BirdieBalls and the Electronic Swing Groover II are two golf practice
traing aids. 
		 
		 
		
 

 
 
 
 
      
       Indoor
      Putting Greens 
      Birdie Balls
      
       
      
       
       
           
       
       CaddyBytes
      Links: 
       
       
       Back
      to CaddyBytes   
      Featured Products Page
       
      
       
 
 



 
 
 

		
         
           
           
            
             
            
            CaddyBytes 
            Pro Shop
             
             
            Golf Club's 
            Links Here :
            
            
           
         
		 
		                                                                                        
		   
          
          Golf Clubs 
          For Sale:
           
          
         
		 
		                                                                                        
		  
         
		 
           
		  
                                                        
           
           
		 
           
                                                        
           
           
		  
                                                        
           
           
		 
           
                                                        
           
           
		  
                                                        
           
           
		 
           
                                                        
           
           
		  
                                                        
           
           
		 
           
                                                        
           
           
		  
                                                        
           
           
		 
           
                                                        
           
           
		  
                                                        
           
           
		  
                                                        
           
           
		  
                                                        
           
           
		 
                                                           
           
           
		  
                                                                
           
		 

		
 

             
 
  
			 
               State of
              the art indoor
              Putting Greens:  More
              like real grass set to the stimp speed of your choice! Scroll for
              complete product description and ordering info at the bottom of
              this page: 
             					
			  
 
 					
			 
			 
               
                
              

               
              If there's a custom size you'd like  Email Us 
 
               
Or Select from the following five payment and ordering options:   
               
 
  
 
 
  For 2 wide by 9 feet
    long to add bidirectional holes (at both ends) - select from drop down Menu below:
              
              
       
	 Basic 2 by 9 Foot $74.99 USD 
	 2 by 9 Bidirectional $89.99 USD 
    
   Select your Stimp Speed
    from the next drop down Menu below:     
	 Slow  
	 Medium  
	 Fast  
    
 
 
 
$74.99
              
- for the basic 2 
              
 by 9 Foot long putting green.  Includes two cups and two flags in one direction (at one end) with bumper at the
hole end.  For bidirectional two cups with one cup and flag on each end and
 bumper trim at both ends add $15.00
              
            
              
use the drop down selection for that above -
 Includes one dozen BirdieBalls Free and Free Shipping Continental USA.

  
 
 
 
 
   For
    4 feet wide by 9 feet long to add bidirectional holes at both ends select from drop down Menu below:
              
              
    
       
	 Basic 4 by 9 Foot $134.99 USD 
	 4 by 9 Bidirectional $159.99 USD 
    
   Select your Stimp Speed
    from the next drop down Menu below:
       
	 Slow  
	 Medium  
	 Fast  
    
 
 
 
$134.99
              
- 
              
for the basic 4 by 9 Foot long putting green 
- Includes three
cups and three flags in one
direction (at one end)  Shims are also included which can be used to create
break for the putting green.  For bidirectional - two cups with flags at one end
and one cup with one flag on the other
end and bumper trim at both ends add $25.00
              
            
              
use the drop down selection for that above  - Includes
one dozen BirdieBalls Free and Free Shipping Continental USA.
  


              
             
			 
               
                  
                BirdieBall, 5/8"
                Thick, Indoor Putting Green System, from  $74.99. 
                 
                 
                Pictured above: 4' x 14',
                Bi-Directional, 10-11 Stimp 
               
               Designed
              for the VERY, VERY serious and discerning golfer who understands
              putting green roll, grain and speed. Any custom size and
              speed is available.   
               2010,
              Utah Open Winner, Cameron Crawford, credits the
              BirdieBall putting green with part of his success.  Scott
              Crawford, purchased a 27', fast, 11-13 Stimp for his son
              Cameron in July of 2010, two months later; "His stroke
              average drop by two strokes and he was low amateur at
              the Utah Open.  He is going to turn pro now. 
              I just want to say thanks for a great product!" 
              -Scott Crawford 
                 Wet
              or Dry, Hard Surface or Carpet, Portable or Permanent.
               Great Anywhere!  Then just roll it up and put it away
              with no creases or wrinkles. 
                
               
              
              
              Stimp Controlled! 
              Pick Your Speed!
               Each green is made
              for you!  Practice with the speed you normally play. 
              You specify the greens speed during
              the ordering process below.  In
              recent months we have developed a surface treating technique which
              allows us to make your green any speed.  Municipal courses
              are slower than private or higher end public courses which are in
              turn slower than championship courses. 
               Order yours to the
              speed you desire.  Call
              the course you play and ask them
              what the "Stimp" reading is
              on the greens you play. 
               Slow, Public
              Municipal:  9-10 Stimp 
               Medium, Private: 
              10-11 Stimp 
               Fast,
              Championship:  11-13 Stimp 
               If a speed is not
              specified, we will ship the most popular, medium speed. 
               Are you
              looking for a textured green, which simulates an actual natural
              surface?  Fake plastic grass, is not what a putting green
              looks or feels like.  A real natural surface is nubs of
              grass that allow the ball to be supported on the very top of the
              hyper-short blade.  This surface does exactly the same thing,
              and it does it at a fraction of the cost! 
               This
              is the largest putting green system on the market for under $300. 
              Made of a proprietary textured foam, the surface of this green
              resembles an actual putting green.  Soft, like a putting
              green, you can chip to this surface and get an actual real bounce
              and release characteristic for you practice needs.  Putt,
              Chip and change the countours with the shim sections supplied with
              your system.  The 5/8" Thickness is
              unprecedented, it allows for the golf ball to actually fall
              in the hole without proping up the end.  Shim up the area you
              are standing on and actually create a slippery down hill putt. 
              Putting cups with entry lines help create a mental picture of
              where you want the golf ball to enter the hole on breaking putts.  The
              system rolls up and stores away easily, allowing you to bring it
              out for hours of entertaining. 
              
               
              For a
              definition of STIMP meters and what this measurement means just
              read below.
              
               Stimp Meter:  A very
              simple device (invented by Edward Stimpson) used to measure the
              speed of a putting green). 
              It's nothing more sophisticated than a small ramp designed to
              propel a golf ball at a standard initial velocity across a flat,
              level area of the green. The distance the ball travels before
              coming to rest is measured quite conventionally and this distance
              is expressed in whole feet. Fast Greens, like those of The U. S.
              Open, rate about a 12 to 14 feet. Medium greens are in the 10
              to 11 feet region. Soft greens can be 8 feet of roll or
              lower. 
               How good is this technology
              and this value?  We encourage you to shop.  Here is our
              closest competitor.  Tour Links has a 4 ft x 10 ft
              surface without chipping and without contouring, it is elevated to
              create some hole depth.  It is $899 + Freight.  We are
              1/10th of that price with all of the feel and roll of an
              actual putting green.  Is the BirdieBall Putting Green too
              good to be true?  No, but it is a different approach.  
               
              
               
               
 
 
 
   For
    4 feet
    wide by 14 feet long to add bidirectional (holes cut at
    both ends) - select from drop down Menu below:
    
    
              
              
       
	 Basic 4 by 14 Foot $154.99 USD 
	 4 by 14 Bidirectional $179.99 USD 
    
   Select your Stimp Speed
    from the next drop down Menu below:
       
	 Slow  
	 Medium  
	 Fast  
    
 
 
 
$154.99
              
- 
              
for the basic 4 by 14 Foot long putting green 
- Includes three
cups and three flags in one
direction (at one end)  Shims are also included which can be used to create
break for the putting green.  For bidirectional - two cups with flags at one end
and one cup with one flag on the other
end and bumper trim
at both ends add $25.00
              
            
              
use the drop down selection for that above  - Includes
one dozen BirdieBalls Free and Free Shipping Continental USA.



              
 
              
 
              
 
 
 
 
   For
    
    
              
8 
    feet wide by
    12 feet long indoor putting green:
    
              
              
     
	 Basic 8 by 12 Foot $454.99 USD 
    
   Select your Stimp Speed
    from the next drop down Menu below:     
	 Slow  
	 Medium  
	 Fast  
    
 
 
 
$454.99
              
              

              

- for the 8 feet wide by 12 Feet long putting green
- Includes five cups and five flags - two on each end and one middle cup. Shims are also included which can be used to create
break for the putting green.  Bumper Trim at both ends - Includes
one dozen BirdieBalls Free and Free Shipping Continental USA.
 
              
                
 
 
 
   8 foot
  wide by 18 feet long indoor putting green:
     
	 Basic 8 by 18 Foot $554.99 USD 
    
   Select your Stimp Speed
    from the next drop down Menu below:     
	 Slow  
	 Medium  
	 Fast  
    
 
 
 
$554.99
              
              
- for the 8 feet wide by 18 Feet
long putting green
- Includes seven
              cups and seven flags - three on each end and one middle cup. Shims are also included which can be used to create
break for the putting green.  Bumper Trim at both ends - Includes
one dozen BirdieBalls Free and Free Shipping Continental USA.
 
              
               
 

              
               

              
              
              
              

             							
			 					
			  
			 
			 BirdieBalls
              Box of 12 Balls -FREE SHIPPING ON ALL PRODUCTS! (CONTINENTAL
              USA) 					
			 					
             
			 
                                                                  
              
               
              
               
              
              BirdieBalls Box of 12 
              -the
              limited flight practice golf ball that you can hit anywhere.
              It?s the best golf training aid invented this century. What?s
              so unique? It has a limited distance of 40 yards but it feels and
              flies just like a real golf ball. It draws, it fades, but with a
              limited range so you have your own backyard driving range. 
              Pros like it because its
              unique shape and center of gravity allow it to spin, and
              therefore, it reacts just like a golf ball.  Beginners
              like it because it?s a fun way to learn golf!
              
 
 
  
   
 $34.99 -Includes
Free Shipping (Continental U.S)

               
             
             
			 
			 BirdieBalls
              Box of 12 Balls and Strike Pad -FREE
              SHIPPING ON ALL PRODUCTS! (CONTINENTAL
              USA) 					
			 					
             
			 
                                    
               
              
              
               
  
              BirdieBalls Box of 12 with Strike Pad  
              -It
              won?t break like a wiffleball or other perforated practice
              balls. It comes with a Strikepad? so you won?t take divots out
              of your turf and therefore, you don?t need a golf mat or any
              other turf pad.  Birdieball is made of a high modulus
              engineered polymer that can withstand a 125 mph swing.
              
 
 
 
 
  

$43.99 -Includes
Free Shipping (Continental U.S) 
               
             
             
			 
			  FREE
              SHIPPING ON ALL PRODUCTS! (CONTINENTAL
              USA) 					
			 
 

 
			 
		 
			  ELECTRONIC
              SWING GROOVER II -FREE
              SHIPPING ON ALL PRODUCTS! (CONTINENTAL
              USA) 					
			 					
			 
			 
               Tracks
              & Analyzes Shot Distance & Direction for Each Club  
               
               
               
               
               Animated
              Display Shows Ball Flight  
               
               
               Choose English or Metric Display
               
               
               
               
              Electronic
              Swing Groover II ! 
               					
			 
               Choose
              Any Club from 1 Wood to 9 Iron  
               
               
               Surlyn
              Ball for a True Clubhead Feel  
               
               
               Thick,
              Soft, Durable Nylon Turf  
               
               
               
               
               
              
              Heavy Rubber Base For Indoor or Outside Use  
               
              
               
               Vivid
              White Alignment Stripe Helps Visualize Correct Swing Plane  
               
               
               For
              Left & Right Handed Golfers 
               
               					
			 					
			 
			 
               ELECTRONIC
              SWING GROOVER II     -IT'S NO SECRET that the only way to
              improve your game is practice.  Now you can practice at home with
              the SWING GROOVER II, with full shot analysis and tracking.  The
              ball flight and distance are animated in real-time on the large
              LCD screen.  Information including clubhead speed, best and average
              shot distance and direction are calculated and digitally displayed
              in either standard yardage or Metric units.  Most clubs in your bag
              can be used, and with each shot the user can choose from three
              different adjustable ball heights. The SWING GROOVER II develops
              good habits, promoting a natural tendency to swing through the
              ball. And since the ball spins in place there is no desire to look
              up after contact.  The information learned about how far and
              how accurately you hit each club is extremely useful when on the
              golf course in determining the proper club selection.  For example,
              when faced with that 155 yard approach over water with a sand trap
              on the left of the green you'll know which club to pull from the
              bag with confidence! 
              The
              platform base with its durable commercial grade turf allows you to
              practice indoors or out in the family room, garage, basement,
              patio, on the rooftop, backyard anywhere you can swing a golf
              club!   					
			 					
			 
 
 
 

 $149.99   -Includes

 
              claims for this item per our discretion!) 
              
			 
			 
			 FREE
              SHIPPING ON ALL PRODUCTS! (CONTINENTAL
              USA) 					
			 					
			 

             Caddybytes
        Links: 
      
        
       
      
      Back to Caddybytes
      Featured Products Page: