Golf and travel guide for Scotland British Isles. 

  


  
  
 
  

  
 
 
 

 

 

 
   
     
       
          Welcome to CaddyBytes 
- 'Golf & Travel' 
Your Guide to find 
Courses Travel & Play!  
         
           
              
          Visit -The  CaddyBytes Pro Shop   
          -it is a  place that will  'fit' 
         all your golfing needs! 
         
          CaddyBytes Home Page  
       
     
    
     
        Golf and Travel Home  
        British Isles  
        Northeast USA  
        Midwest USA        
        Northwest USA  
        Southwest USA        
        Southeast USA        
     
    
       
    
   
   
     
       
         
            
              
  
            
          CaddyBytes Golf & Travel Links:  
         
       
         
        Golf and Travel Home Page:  
         
         British Isles Golf and Travel  
         
         New England Golf and Travel  
         
         Southeast USA Golf and Travel  
         
         Northwest USA Golf and Travel   
          
 Southwest USA Golf and Travel  
           
           Florida Golf and Travel  
           
           Arizona Golf and Travel  
           
         CaddyBytes Home Page 
         
             
         
         
       
     
    
     
        
        
     
    
   
   
      Featured Golf and Travel:   Scotland  
     The  Turnberry Ailsa Course  is a well-known golf course in  Turnberry, Ayrshire. it has played host to The Open Championship many times.  The most famous of the 3 championships this course has hosted, (1977,1986 and  1994) was the infamous 'duel in the sun' by Tom Watson and Jack Nicklaus. The  second course, the Kintyre, hasn't hosted any main tournaments, but is still  considered one of the best in Scotland. The Most famous feature of the Ailsa course is  the lighthouse which looks out over the sea, it is in fact a functional  lighthouse, which still does its job. In 1902 golf course designer Willie Fernie was  commissioned by the Marquess of Ailsa to lay out a championship course. In  1906, a hotel was built, and the course began to take its modern structure.  However, during the Second World War, Fernie's layout was paved over to make  concrete runways. Phillip Mackenzie Ross was the man given the task of  returning the course to its old glory after the war, after two years of  painstaiking rebuilding, the course was reopened in 1951. The first of its  three opens was the aforementioned 'duel in the sun' by tom watson and jack  nicklaus. Watson was victorious, despite Nicklaus holing a monster birdie putt on  the 18th. The 18th hole was renamed the duel in the sun not long after. The  1986 Open Championship was the next to be hosted at Turnberry, with Greg Norman  winning by five shots. The 1994 Open championship was won by Nick Price from  Zimbabwe. The winning margin this time was by a single stroke. The course is  set to host the 2009 Open Championship. ( Article sourced from Wikipedia.com ) Photo of Par 3 - 15th Hole Turnberry Ailsa Course courtesy of relevantsearchscotland.co.uk. 
    
     
      
       
          
            
             
       
       
          Golfing Destinations and Links to golf course webs for Scotland by region: 
              
          
       
       
          
           Ayrshire/Ayr 
          
          Dumfries/Galloway  
          
             Lothian/Edinburgh 
          
          East Central/Dundee  
          Renfrew/Glasgow  
           
       
       
          
            Turnberry links courses  
          
           The Cally Palace parks course   
           Muirfield links course   
           St Andrews links courses   
           Bothwell Castle Golf Club parks course   
            
       
       
          
            Royal Troon links courses  
          
          
            Dumfries and Galloway Golf Course parks course  
          
           Gullane Golf Club links courses   
           Carnoustie links courses   
           Cardross Golf Club parks course   
            
       
       
          
            Prestwick Golf Club links course  
          
          
            Portpatrick Golf Club links courses  
          
          
            Archerfield Links Golf Course links courses  
          
           Kingsbarns Golf Links links course   
           Cathkin Braes Golf Club moorland/parks cours e  
            
       
       
           Western Gailes links course   
           Southerness Golf Club links course   
           Bruntsfield Links Golf Club parks course   
           Gleneagles parks courses   
           Cawder Golf Club parks courses   
            
       
       
           Belleisle parks course   
           Stranraer Golf Club parks course   
           Craigielaw Golf Club links course   
           Blairgowrie Golf Club parks courses   
           Cowglen Golf Club parks course   
            
       
       
           Brunston Castle Golf Club parks course   
           Brighouse Bay Golf Course links course   
           Dalmahoy Marriott Hotels parks courses   
           Crail Golfing Society links course   
           Crow Wood Golf Club parks course   
           
       
       
           Glasgow Gailes by Irvine links course   
           Colvend Golf Club parks course   
           Deer Park Golf & Country Club parks course   
           The Duke's heathland course   
           Douglas Park Golf Club parks course   
           
       
       
           Irvine Golf Club links course   
           Dumfries and County Golf Club parks course   
           Duddingston Golf Club parks course   
           Edzell Golf Club links course   
           East Renfrewshire Golf Club parks course   
           
       
       
           Kilmarnock Barassie by Troon links courses   
           Kirkcudbright Golf Club parks course   
           Dunbar Golf Club links course   
           Forrester Park Resort parks course   
           Erskine Golf Club parks course   
           
       
       
           Largs Golf Club parks course   
           Lochmaben Golf Club parks course   
           Haddington Golf Club parks course   
           Kinross Golf Courses parks course   
           Glasgow Golf Club parks course   
           
       
       
           St Cuthbert Golf Club parks course   
           Lagganmore Hotel & Golf Club moorland course   
           Kings Acre Golf Club parks course   
           Ladybank Golf Club heathland course   
           Gleddoch House Hotel and Golf Club parks course   
           
       
       
           St Nicholas links course   
           Moffat Golf Club moorland course   
           Kingsknowe Golf Club parks course   
           Ladybank Golf Club heathland course   
           Haggs Castle Golf Club parks course   
           
       
       
           West Kilbride links course   
           Newton Stewart Golf Club parks course   
           Musselburgh Golf Club parks course   
           Letham Grange parks                      courses   
           Paisley Golf Club moorland course   
           
       
       
           Girvan Golf Club links & parks course   
           Pines Golf Centre parks course   
           Royal Musselburgh Golf Club links courses   
           Letham Grange parks                      courses   
           Ranfurly Castle Golf Club heathland/moorland course   
           
       
       
           North Gailes parks courses   
           Thornhill Golf Club parks course   
           North Berwick Golf Club links course   
           Leven Links Golf Course                             links course   
           Renfrew Golf Club parks course   
           
       
       
           Skelmorlie Golf Club moorland course   
           Wigtownshire County Golf Club links course   
           Glen Golf Club links course   
           Lundin Golf Club links course   
           Strathaven Golf Club parks course   
           
       
       
          Arran:  
           Lochranza Golf Course parks course   
           Pumpherston Golf Club parks course   
           Monifieth Golf Links                             links courses   
           Dalziel Park Golf Club parks course   
           
       
       
           Brodick Golf Club coastal course   
           Shiskine Golf and Tennis Club links course   
           Royal Burgess Golf Club parks course   
           Montrose Golf Courses links courses   
           Scotscraig Golf Club                             links course   
           
       
       
           Lamlash Golf Club parks course   
             Whiting Bay Golf Club parks course   
           Whitekirk Golf & Country Club inland links course   
           Murrayshall Golf Courses parks courses   
           St Andrews Bay links                             courses   
           
       
       
            
       
       
          
           Borders/Kelso 
          
          Highlands/Inverness  
          
           Northeast/Aberdeen 
          
          Central/Sterlin  
          West Central/Argyll  
           
       
       
           Eyemouth Golf Club links course   
           Royal Dornoch Golf Club links course s  
           Royal Aberdeen Golf Club links courses   
           Buchanan Castle Golf Club parks course   
           Glencruitten Golf Course by Oban   
           
       
       
           Hirsel Golf Club parks course   
           Nairn Golf Club links course   
           Cruden Bay Golf Course links course   
           Falkirk Golf Course/Carmuirs parks course   
           Helensburgh Golf Club by Helensburgh   
           
       
       
           Peebles Golf Club parks course   
           The Carnegie Club/ Skibo Castle parks course   
           Deeside Golf Club parks courses   
           Falkirk Tryst Golf Club parks course   
           Machrihanish Golf Club by Campbeltown   
           
       
       
           Roxburghe Golf Course parks course   
           Brora Golf Club links course   
           Inchmarlo Golf Club parks course   
           Glenbervie Golf Club parks course   
           Blairmore and Strone Golf Club  
          
           
       
       
           Duns Golf Club parks course   
           Nairn Dunbar Golf Club links course   
           Newmachar Golf Club parks courses   
           Stirling Golf Club parks course   
            
           
       
       
           Jedburgh Golf Club parks course   
           Spey Valley Golf Course moorland course   
           Meldrum House Golf Club parks course   
           Aberfoyle Golf Club parks cours e  
           Lochgilphead Golf Course by Lochgilphead   
           
       
       
           Minto Golf Club parks course   
           Tain Golf Club links course   
           Newburgh on Ythan Golf Club links course   
           Bridge Of Allan Golf Club parks course   
            
           
       
       
           St Boswells Golf Club parks course   
            
           Moray Golf Club links courses   
           Callander Golf Club parks course   
           Taynuilt Golf Club by Taynuilt   
           
       
       
           Torwoodlee Golf Club parks course   
            
           Murcar Links Golf Club links course s  
           Dunblane New Golf Club parks cours e   
             
         Strathendrick Golf Club parks course   
            
           
       
      
     
    
     Welcome to Ayrshire Scotland 
     Welcome to Ayrshire--land of Robert Burns, the Vikings,  Scotland's premier horse-racing venue, and a brilliant array of fine Scottish  links golf courses. Here you'll not only find Royal Troon (home of the 2004  British and 2008 Senior British Open Championships) and Turnberry (the other Ayrshire golf course on the  British Open rota), and Prestwick (where the very first British Open was played  in 1860), but a cluster of many other excellent Scottish golf courses as well. How rich is Ayrshire in golf courses? There are  32 golf courses within a 20 minutes drive from the town of Ayr, the largest  town in Ayrshire. And because the Gulf Stream lies off the coast here and keeps  the greens frost-free, golf can be played all year. Ayrshire is historical and  picturesque. If you're a Robert Burns fan, this is the place to be. And for the  golfer...well, Ayrshire's links-fringed coast is a feast. We're using the town  of Ayr as the base for golfing in this part of Scotland. The Royal Burgh  (pronounced boor-ah) of Ayr is the capital of Ayrshire, and is ideally  positioned for all of your activites in this compact area. As always, you'll  want to head for the local  Tourist Information Centre , located in the Burns  House, Burns Statue Square in Ayr. They have Ordnance Survey Maps of the area  and lots of good intormation to enhance your stay in Ayrshire.