Royal St. George's golf club 2011 British Open pictures. 
 Tournament name here 
 
 

 






  
    
      
      
       
      
      Royal St. George's 
      Finishing 
      Holes of the  2003 & 2011 
      
      British Open: 
      
       
      
       
           
       
      
       Click Here back to
Our  2011
British Open Golf Championship   golf tournament's page: 
         
        

      
         
        

CaddyBytes Home Page
 
      
 
      
       
    
   
   
  
   
      2011
      British Open 
      News Stories  
      2011
      Tournaments  
      
      CaddyBytes 
      Golf & Travel  
      
      Golf
      Course 
      Slide Shows  
      
      CaddyBytes  
      Caddy
      Stories  
      
      Golf
      News 
      Of The Day  
      
      Books About 
      Caddies  
      
      CaddyBytes 
      Pro Shop  
   
 

 
  
    
      
      
       
 
          
        Welcome to our virtual
        tour in pictures of Royal St. George's Golf Club, holes 13 through 18
        -for the 2003 & 2011 British Open Championship.  After Henry Cotton won
        the British Open at Royal St. George's in 1949 there was a long gap of
        time until she was used again in the British Open rotation and not until
        1981 when Bill Roger's won, was it again played at this venue. 
        Reason being it was far on the southeast coast of Britain and sitting
        obscuring along the coast outside the village of Sandwich, where there
        wasn't thought to be the necessary access and facilities to hold a
        modern day British Open Championship.  The Open was played here in
        1985 when Sandy Lyle won and again in 1993 when Greg Norman won his
        second British Open.   This golf course is a throw-back to the
        old style of links golf courses of 20 or so years ago.  The
        fairways and immediate rough are minimally watered and dry like the
        British Open's dating back to the 1970's.  The fairways are very
        narrow and mounded kicking tee shots freely into the primary and
        secondary cuts of rough, where a player's lie can be in the thick stuff
        or the 'dry and wispy'.  And along side the English Channel as the
        tide changes each day so comes the wind!  
          
         
   This 
 tee shot view of the long, 459 
 yard par four
 13th hole at Royal St. George's Golf Club, home of the 2003 British Open
 Championship! 
  
 These bunkers in the pix right are 257 and 283 respectively off the tee far in
 the distance.  And it's very narrow -maybe 20 yards between the bunkers.
 (as are all the landing area's here at Royal St. George's), with the fairway's
 hard and fast. 
  
 There's also a bunker down the left side opposite the long one in this picture
 making the tee shot exacting.  To get home from the bunkers or the rough
 will require only a good lie with the ball sitting well. 
  
 On Friday, 36 hole leader Davis Love hit an iron into the left rough and was
 unable to reach the green with his second shot.
 
          
             Here's
            the second shot view into the 13th green at Royal St. George's Golf
            Club.   
             
            The play here can be a long iron off the tee or a driver through the
            narrow gap of bunkers. 
             
            Darren Clarke, playing along side Davis Love here on Friday drove
            his golf ball into the first of the three bunker's in the picture
            (left), a drive of approximately 350 yards! The
            fairway's are that hard and fast!
            
   
     
    This
    13th green is long (45 yards deep) and narrow and is bunkered only in the
    right short front and left short front as well. 
     
    This allows you to run a shot into the green here -link's style -but will
    rebound the shot right or left off of the long ridge that runs down the
    center of the green.  (In pix right) 
     
    Both Tiger Wood's and Davis Love bogied this hole on Thursday and Friday,
    respectively.
    
  
  This
  tee shot view in the distance (picture left) of the long 550 yard par 5
  14th hole. 
   
  In a practice round with no wind, Tiger played this one with a two iron off
  the tee -it's 322 to the run out into the cross Bern hazard off the tee
  shot.  And he then played a three iron and short pitch. 
   
  On Thursday, Tiger pulled his tee shot left into the hay, tried to play over
  the Bern with his second but moved it only 20 or so yards and worked very hard
  for his bogey six after that. 
   
  Meanwhile in Friday's round, Davis Love's drive hit an out of bounds post and
  kicked left back in bounds on his way to a par five. 
  
   This
    is a picture of the left edge of the 14th hole's cross hazard or Bern as it
    is called in the British Isles.  
     
    If it's down wind then the play is a long iron off the tee.  Playing
    into the wind the first two days, (15 to 30 mph) has been requiring the
    professional's to hit there driver's so far this week. 
     
    It's still a good 230 to 240 yards to the front of the green from this side
    of the hazard.  The lay-up shot requires properly negotiating the
    bunkers you see in the distance and in the next picture (below). 
    
       
  This
    is a good look
    of the 14th
  fairway's bunkering on the way to the green (in picture left) and which must
  be negotiated on the lay-up for a short iron third shot on this long par five
  hole. 
   
  The first bunker on the left is only 85 yards to the front of the green with
  the right two being only 67 yards from the green. 
   
  So a good lay-up would be to avoid the two positioning your second shot
  between them for a short and 'scorable' third.
    
       
  This
    
  is a picture of the 14th green
  looking back down the fairway to the tee right of the big house in the
  distance (in picture right). 
   
  You can see how close the out of bounds stakes are all down the right side and
  including off the tee shot as well. 
   
  Typical of links designs, you can't see any of the bunkers when you look back
  down the hole!  Where have they gone? 
   
  It's a trick of the Scots and notable of early designed links golf courses! 
   
  The 14th green is 33 yards deep and guarded by mounding and two 'pot' bunkers
  into the left front of the green as well.   
   
  Click
This Link to See Royal St. George's 15th and 16th Hole Pictures! 
   
 Click Here back to
Our  2011
British Open Golf Championship   golf tournament's page:
    
        

       
      
       
  
Tournaments page - with more Winning Caddy Interviews 
 
 
 
      
 
Click
This Link to See 15th & 16th Holes at Royal St. George's G.C.! 
 
 
  
   
Click Here back to
Our  2011
British Open Golf Championship   golf tournament's page: 
 
 Golf
News of the Day 
 is the place to go
on CaddyBytes for daily stories from around the world of tournament golf!
 
 
More CaddyBytes  'Featured
Caddy Stories' 
  
The Virtual Golf Tours  are great visual golf tours of some famous courses... 
 

      

Our  Resource of Caddy Books  provides you with a bibliographical resource of all the books ever written on, about, or by golf caddies! (*Now with Book Reviews added!)

  
  

  2008
Ryder Cup 
      

Highlights DVD - 
U.S. Wins! 
 
 
 
 



  New
in updated model in 2011! 


The Sonocaddie 
Personal GPS 
Yardage Caddie
      
 
 
Click Here:    2008
Ryder Cup  
      


Official Leroy Neiman 



Tournament Posters  

& Commissioned Art   
Click Here: 
 
 
 New
in 2011! Portable 
Indoor Putting Greens: 



Quick & Easy to set up or take down. 
5/8ths inch thick indoor putting  
green system.  Three sizes to choose 
from.  (Or we'll custom fit your request) 
You can get the stimp speed 
of your choice! 
      

 Click Here: 
 
 
 

#1
Teaching Aid! 
!The
Smart Stick: 
  

- 
 eliminate ugly slices & hooks 
from your golf game.  This device provides 
 instant feedback, allows you to
see mistakes, & helps make immediate corrections!  

 Click Here: 
 


 

         Signup for the CaddyBytes Newsletter Here:  When you Submit your email address you will receive information about how to get a collectible BC PTCA Caddy Doll, as well as upcoming CaddyBytes News, Golf Product Specials and Giveaways! CaddyBytes.com will not share your email address with Anyone, Ever!?(Also:
        We've recently updated our Email Security!)

 
      
             

           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Visit
-The  Caddybytes Pro Shop  -it is a
place that will  'fit' all your golfing needs! 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Click
This Link to See Royal St. George's 15th and 16th Hole Pictures! 
 
 Click Here back to
Our  2011
British Open Golf Championship   golf tournament's page: