Caddy stories from the dashboard of real golf tour caddies. 

  


  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 

 
   
     
       
          This  Week's Story is 
          - 'From the Dashboard' 
          of veteran tour caddy  
          CaddyBytes Bob 
         
           
                  
          Visit -The  CaddyBytes Pro Shop   
            -it is a  place that will  'fit' 
           all your golfing needs! 
           
            CaddyBytes Home Page    
       
     
    
     
        CaddyBytes Home Page        
        2011 Tournaments  
        Golf & Travel  
        Caddy Stories  
        Slide Shows  
        Golf News  
        Caddy Books  
        'Haul' of Fame  
        Pro Shop  
     
       
    
   
   
     
       
         
                            From the 'Dashboard': 
        of 'CaddyBytes Bob': 
                 
                 Veteran tour caddy  Bob Whitbread - 20 years as a caddy  in professional golf. Since I don't necessarily like to 'blow my own horn' or make CaddyBytes about me so much - as I created CaddyBytes.com in 2002 for an emphasis on professional golf caddies and what caddying out on tour might be all about. I also wanted it to be a tribute to a special breed of people who've dedicated their time in a game that they feel passionate about. I've been around the game  out on tour in the past two decades after a couple of brief stints in the late '70's and early '80's. Then full time from 1990 - 2007. Needless to say we've seen a lot of changes today which pretty much reflect the market place - such as the inception of the FedExCup and the loss of tournaments here in the USA and the great expansion of golf internationally. This column will be from my own 'Dashboard' and will be my take on things that I choose to 'Take On' - let's call it the world of golf 'According to Bob' - hehehe!!! I Hope it's somewhat informative and at least occasionally enjoyable. If not - why bother to visit CaddyBytes at all - right?!.                  
                 
             
                
   
           
         
       
       
         
            More Dashboard from Bob Whitbread 
also featured on CaddyBytes.com:  
         
         
               Week of 04/07/11 
          Tiger's Era of Dominance is Done (Unfortunately)     
             
             Week of 02/21/11 
          West Coast Swing   
             
         
         
                   Week of 03/24/11 
Tiger & The Tour: Part 1   
             
             
             
         
         
                
             
             
             
         
       
       
         
            *Also Read these Caddies Dashboard stories by 
            Randall Watts:  
         
         
             Week of 05/26/10   
             
              Week of 00/00/00  
             
         
         
              Week of 00/00/00  
             
            Week of 00/00/00  
             
         
             
     
     
        
        
     
    
   
   
     
       
            
            The Caddies Dashboard continues here in 2011    
            - This Week's featured caddy story is - 'from the Dashboard' of: 
             
 
       
                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                         'CaddyBytes 'Bob'  08/08/11 
                                                            
                                      'Steve UPSTAGES Tiger at Bridgestone': 
   
                   
                     
                       
                         
                           
                             
                               
                                 
                                   
                                     
                                       Poor Tiger.  He can’t catch a break.  He can’t even fire his caddy like any  journeyman pro would. In those cases no one knows what happened.  They may not even notice for week’s on  end.  But when you’ve been the best in  the world for so many years nothing - I mean nothing you do goes unnoticed. 
                                           
So Steve let’s us know he was upset, Tiger didn’t really like him leaving even  temporarily for Adam Scott.  It so happens  by chance that Tiger  comes out to play after a long layoff - and that should  be the big story but his ex caddie steals the stage.  In the best sense of Shakespearean theatre  the former caddie UPSTAGES the man who made him rich and famous on the same  week he returns from injury after a long layoff.  Poor Yorik er’ Tiger! 
 
His passion for life and golf and the trappings of his youth and fame (ie  women) got him in all this mess.  And a  terrible decision to listen to Hank Haney and flatten his golf swing – that’s the  same Hank Haney who can’t even help Charles Barkley hit a golf ball.  Can you imagine this all happening in the  world of Tiger Woods just a few years ago? 
 
Williams says that this victory was his most ‘satisfying’.  The fans at Firestone were pulling for Steve  while caddying for Scott there on Sunday.   Comments derogatory to Tiger and in favor of his former ‘fired’ right  hand man.  This identification no doubt  goes more to the present day working class dilemma - a crashed economy and a  sense of disdain for the ‘elite’ whom some could assume would be pro athletes  and other rich and ‘spoiled’ people as uncaring and responsible for our present  economic crisis.  Of course that would be  a stretch of the facts. 
 
But when you are playing and in an introverts game it’s hard to cross the line  as a caddy to become bigger than the player.   What Tiger brought to professional golf was the charisma and presence of  an action sport character to the mostly boring (to most sports fans) world of  golf.  Steve got engaged in all of  that.  I   mean the Tiger fist pump the  brash  and bold way he went about it all bringing that to a game that lacks all of  that by it’s very nature. 
 
Steve was very lucky to be a part of that era.   I wrote in a previous article herein that Tiger’s era of domination is  done.  I meant it.  So Steve has moved on.  He may win more with Adam Scott than Tiger  will from here on in.  The main reason  and only reason being that Tiger’s swing tears on that left knee and that  problematical knee is holding him back. 
                                       With a good knee he’d still  be on top and maybe have one or two majors left to beat the Nicklaus  record.   
                                             
                                        I’m willing to go out on a limb here though.   Like all great Shakespearean characters.   Tiger will amidst all his failings and shortcomings get it done.  I mean he will break Jack’s record.  Even if it takes a knee replacement.   
   
                                        I wish I was on his P.R. team.  Good luck  to Steve.  But thank Tiger in your  prayers Steve.  Don’t forget where you  came from man! 
                                                                                                                                                    Thanks, 
                                                                                                                                                        Bob 
                                     
                                   
                                    
                                 
                               
                             
                           
                         
                                                                                                                       
                     
                   
                     
                   
                 
                   
                 
                   
                       *Also Click Here to read this  caddy dashboard story by
                    Randall Watts:   
                   
                   
                                         CaddyBytes.com is not affiliated with the PGA Tour, PGA of America,  or any other Professional Golf Organizations,  their officers or agents -Just the Caddies!   All Caddy Stories appearing on this website do  not necessarily represent the views or opinions of CaddyBytes.com nor it's owner(s).  This story is appearing on CaddyBytes.com with the permission of Mark Huber and 'Mark's Kaddy Korner'.  Thereby CaddyBytes.com is exempt from any said liabilities herein.     Any duplication, or copying of the material presented on this site is  prohibited without the expressed written consent of CaddyBytes.com! 
                   
                  
       
         
     
       
       
   
   
   
    
   
       CaddyBytes:   
       Caddy Stories:   
       Slide Shows:   
       Tournaments:   
       'Haul' of Fame:   
       Caddy Books:   
       Golf News:   
       Pro Shop: