WGC-HSBC Champions golf tournament. 
 
 

   
    
      
      
       2011 WGC- 
      HSBC Champions: 
       
      
      Golf Tournament:
      
       
      
       
      
       
           
       
      
       Visit
-The  CaddyBytes Pro Shop  -it is a
place that will  'fit' all your golfing needs! 
         
         
CaddyBytes Home Page
 
        
      
       
    
   
   
  
   
      2011
      HSBC 
      News Stories  
      2011
      Tournaments  
      
      CaddyBytes 
      Golf & Travel  
      
      Golf
      Course 
      Slide Shows  
      
      CaddyBytes  
      Caddy
      Stories  
      
      Golf
      News 
      Of The Day  
      
      Books About 
      Caddies  
      
      CaddyBytes 
      Pro Shop  
   
 

 
  
    
      
             
   Click Here to our updated 
 2011 WGC-HSBC Champions    golf tournament news stories page:

   
   

   
  
 
 
 
 2010
WGC-HSBC Champions 
Live Scoring 
 Click Here: 
      
      
      
 
    
  
 
      
 
      
 2010
WGC-HSBC Champions 
Live Scoring 
 Click Here: 
      
      
      
  
 
 
      


            
      

Click Here
to see more about the First World Fed. Golf Tour Event
of 2011 -the
  Accenture
Match Play : 
 
 
      


            
      

Click Here to see more about the second World Fed. of Golf Tour Event: the
2011
  WGC-CA Championship   
 
      


            
      

golf tournament:
 
 
 
 
      


            
      

Click Here
to see more about the First World Fed. Golf Tour Event
of 2011 -the
  WGC-Bridgestone
Invitational : 
 
 
  

  

      


            
      
Click Here to our updated   2011
WGC-HSBC Champions   
      


            
      
 golf tournament news stories page:

      
            
      
 
CaddyBytes.com is not affiliated with the PGA Tour, PGA of America,  or any other Professional Golf Organizations,  their officers or agents -Just the Caddies!  All Caddy Stories that appear on this web site are exclusively owned by
CaddyBytes.com.  Any duplication, or copying of the material presented on this site is  prohibited without the expressed written consent of CaddyBytes.com and it's
owner(s)!
 
 
 
 

 
 


 

         
        


   

        
    
  
 

 

 
 
Welcome
to our 2011 WGC-HSBC Champions World Federation of Golf 
Tours golf tournament page - formerly known as the NEC Invitational). In 1996, golf's five leading professional Tours -- the European Tour, Japan Golf
Tour, PGA TOUR, PGA.  The WGC-HSBC Champions is the fourth and final
World Federation of Golf Tours event of the 2011 Season and is being played for the
second time in Shanghai, China.    
 
Tour of Australasian and Southern Africa Tour -- reached
agreement on several key elements of professional golf designed to create new
international events beginning in 1999. The World Golf Championships events feature players from around the world
competing against one another in varied formats (match play, stroke and team).  
 
 A
common qualification standard for the series is top players from the Official
World Golf Ranking, which ensures a strong field. The World Golf Championships feature some of the largest purses in professional
golf. First prize money is in excess of $1 million.  
 
The World Championships have all been staged in the United States since The
Grove in England was the venue for the American Express Championship in 2006 and
the WGC World Match Play was held in Australia in 2001.  Otherwise all
other WGC events have been staged in the United States.   
 
This inaugural WGC-HSBC Champions World Tour Event is being played at the
Sheshan International golf club in Shanghai China. Phil Mickelson won the event
in 2007 and Sergio Garcia won in 2008 when the HSBC was not yet played as an official
World Golf Championship event.  Then Mickelson won again in 2009 the first
year that this was officially a World Golf Championship event with Francesco
Molinari winning in 2010.  Who will
win this year?  Stay tuned and go to our live scoring and latest stories
and news: 
 
 Click Here to our updated
 Golf News Stories Page for the  2011
WGC-HSBC Champions  golf tournament:
 
 
 
Sheshan International G.C. Shanghai China  
Image Source: 

 
 And stay tuned to CaddyBytes.com for more exclusive interviews, stories, and news
tournament week!
 
 






  
       
  
 
 



 


       
      
       
   
 
Tournaments page - with more Winning Caddy Interviews 
 
  
  
 
 
 
      
New
in 2011:  Golf
and Travel   is the place to go
on CaddyBytes for golf courses travel to info places to stay and play! 
 

      
 Golf
News of the Day 
 is the place to go
on CaddyBytes for daily stories from around the world of tournament golf!
 
 
More CaddyBytes  'Featured
Caddy Stories' 
  
The Virtual Golf Tours  are great visual golf tours of some famous courses... 
 

      

Our  Resource of Caddy Books  provides you with a bibliographical resource of all the books ever written on, about, or by golf caddies! (*Now with Book Reviews added!) 
  

  2008
Ryder Cup 
      

Highlights DVD - 
U.S. Wins! 
 
 
 



  New
in updated model in 2011! 


The Sonocaddie 
Personal GPS 
Yardage Caddie
      
 
 
Click Here:  2012
Ryder Cup  


Official Leroy Neiman 





Official Art Work 
Medinah in Chicago 
September 2012  
Poster & Commissioned Art 
To Get Your's Now!   
Click Here: 
 
 

 New
in 2011! Portable 
Indoor Putting Greens: 
 



Quick & Easy to set up or 
 take down. 
5/8ths inch thick indoor 
 putting green system. 
  Three sizes to choose 
from.  (Or we'll custom fityour request) 
You can get the stimp speed 
of your choice! 
      

 Click Here: 
 
 
 

#1
Teaching Aid! 
The
Smart Stick: 

-eliminate ugly slices & hooksfrom your golf game.  This device provides instant feedback, allows you to
see mistakes, & helps make immediate corrections!  Click Here:
 





 
      
         
        Signup for the CaddyBytes Newsletter Here: 
 


      
        
         When you Submit your email address you will receive information about how to get a collectible BC PTCA Caddy Doll, as well as upcoming CaddyBytes News, Golf Product Specials and Giveaways! CaddyBytes.com will not share your email address with Anyone, Ever!?(Also:
        We've recently updated our Email Security!)



           




 Click Here to our updated   2011
WGC-HSBC Champions     golf tournament news stories page: