CaddyBytes Golf and Travel Guide. 

  


  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 

 

 
   
     
       
          Welcome to CaddyBytes 
- 'Golf & Travel' 
Your Guide to find  
Courses Travel & Play!
 
         
           
              
          Visit -The  CaddyBytes Pro Shop   
          -it is a  place that will  'fit' 
         all your golfing needs! 
         
          CaddyBytes Home Page   
       
     
    
     
        CaddyBytes Home Page        
        Southwest USA  
        Northwest USA  
        Midwest USA  
        Southeast USA  
        Northeast USA  
        British Isles  
     
       
    
   
   
     
       
         
            
                
                
               
                 
         
       
       
     
     
        
        
     
    
   
   
     
       
         CaddyBytes Golf and Travel when you're looking to travel to find golf courses, stay, and play information!  Use the links to regions and find courses where you plan to travel to. Then look for the subregion city or state that corresponds to find courses and travel information. Golf courses are arranged in alphabetical order and linked directly to each golf course or resorts' home website.  Just click the links to maps, course rates, tee times, booking info, and  discounts  available only on the home course websites.  We will continue to add courses throughout the year and new sections as well  ...... Thanks Bob!  
       
       
          
           
             
               
                 
                    16th Green St. Andrews Scotland  
                 
                 
                    The Old Course at St. Andrews is the   
                 
                
           
          
          
           
              Golf courses you can play
  
           
           
                 Carnoustie Links: 
     - Located in Carnoustie in Eastern    Scotland  host to the 2010  Senior British    Open Championship rotation ...   
                                           Click Here for More:   
           
           
                Pebble Beach Links: 
   - Designed by Jack Neville and opened in    1919 on California's Monterey Peninsula     host to the 2010 U.S. Open ..........   
                                           Click Here for more:  
           
           
                Whistling Straits:    - The Straits    Course, designed by Pete Dye, replicates    the ancient seaside courses host to the     2010 PGA Championship     ................   
                                                       Click Here for  More:  
           
          
          
           
              reviewed: 
              
           
           
              
           
           
              
               
           
           
               
                
           
          
       
       
          
           
              - Host to the 2010 Open Championship is a public course over common land in St  Andrews, Fife, Scotland and is held in trust by The St Andrews Links Trust  under an act of Parliament. The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews  (R&A) club house sits adjacent to the first tee and although it might be  imagined that they own the course, they are but one of many clubs that have  playing privileges on the course, along with the general public. There is no real understanding of when golf was  first played over the grounds that now constitute the Old Course. The earliest  written evidence is a license issued in 1552, which permitted the community to  rear rabbits on the links and "play at golf, futball, schuteing ... with  all other manner of pastimes." The first written record of golf being  played at the Old Course dates to 1574, which would make the Old Course the  fifth-oldest links golf site in Scotland. However, documents from the reign  of King James IV show that he bought golf clubs at St Andrews in 1506, only  four years after his first purchase at Perth, which may indicate that the Old Course is significantly older than the   written evidence ...........    C  lick Here to read more  ..  
           
         
        : 
          
           
               Spyglass Hill G.C. -  A  Robert  Trent    Jones gem on the Monterey Peninsula. 
                The 4th hole is one of the the most             photographed             Click Here for More:   
           
           
                 Pinehurst #2: 
    - Designed by Donald Ross in 1907 and     just one of 7 courses that you can play     at Pinehurst                Click Here for more:  
           
           
                  Brown Deer Park G.C.:
              - One of     Milwaukee's best Muni's and former host     to the US Bank Championship there -   designed  in 1928 by  George Hansen                                           Click Here for More ;  
           
           
                  TPC Scottsdale: 
                - Located in Phoenix Arizona host to the                  Waste Management Phoenix Open     Championship on the  PGA Tour                                         Click Here for More:     
                 
           
          
          
           
              
           
           
              
           
           
              
           
           
              
               
           
          
       
     
       
       
   
   
    
   
       CaddyBytes:   
       Home:   
       Southwest:   
       Northwest:   
       Midwest:   
       Northeast:   
       Southeast:   
       British Isles: