(K)meta  
     
     
     
          D.D.P.   
         
         
             DMOZ Documentation
            Project  
          
        Search:  
         
         
         
          
     
     
     
     
     
         (K)meta 
   
       What can a meta editor do?  
      How do I become a meta?  
      Do metas have any additional guidelines to follow?  
      What can a kmeta do?  
      How do I become a kmeta?  
      Why do the meta/kmeta/catmod editors have a private forum?  
      How are meta/kmeta editors involved in the removal 
      of other editors?  
   
      What can a meta editor do? 
   Everything that an editall can do, plus: 
   
     Accept a new editor to the directory. (newapp) 
     Approve an existing editor to edit another category. (newperm) 
     Remove editor's logins 
     Reinstate editors. 
     Warn editors, usually regarding abusive editing. The warning is placed 
      on the editor's dashboard and request log, and must be read and acknowledged 
      before they are allowed to edit. 
     Close forum threads, preventing further posts. 
     Remove forum posting abilities for a specific editor. 
     Turn off submissions, i.e. remove the 'Add URL' option from specific 
      categories. 
     Turn off new editor applications, i.e. remove the 'Become an editor' 
      link and remove the 'This category needs an editor' sign from specific 
      categories. 
     Turn off cooling within a given category 
     Turn the Future Date Sort feature on or off in a given category. 
     Turn the Alphabar Complete List feature on or off in a given category. 
     Block submissions from repeatedly abusive hosts or networks 
     Read and resolve abuse reports from other editors and members of the public. 
     Operate the automated link checker,  Robozilla . 
     Edit and  catmv  any  Bookmarks/  category. 
   
      How do I become a meta? 
   The primary qualification is performance as editall/catmv or CatMod.  
     Do metas have any additional guidelines 
    to follow? 
   Yes, in addition to the  regular 
    guidelines  and the  editall ones , 
    they also have their  own .  
     What can a kmeta do? 
    Everything that a meta editor can, but limited to the  Kids 
    and Teens  hierarchy. 
     How do I become a kmeta? 
    Candidates are chosen for their heavy participation in the  Kids 
    and Teens  hierarchy, editing ability, and forum participation.  
     Why do the meta/kmeta/catmod editors have a private 
    forum? 
    For discussion of potentially sensitive issues such as editor 
    approvals and removals, abuse of the directory and editall/catmv, CatMod and 
    meta candidates. Only issues demanding privacy are discussed in the private 
    forums, when at all possible they are brought to the public forums. 
     How are meta/kmeta editors involved in 
    the removal of other editors? 
   Usually, an editor of any type notices abuse of the directory 
    by another editor. Eventually a meta editor is notified, and they investigate. 
    Depending on the circumstance, it is then put up for a vote in the private 
    meta forum to remove the abusing editor's categories. If five or more metas 
    agree on removal and there are no blocking votes, the editor's categories 
    are removed, either in full or in part, and their login may be inactivated. 
    For further details, you may wish to see  Editor 
    Removal Explained  by arlarson.