ORISE: DOE Secretary Chu honors ORAU employees for Japan crisis response
 

     




  



  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
         
    Media Center  
    News Releases  
    News Archives  
    Videos  
    RSS Feeds  
    Calendar of Events   
    Leadership Team  
    Subject Matter Experts  
    Publications  
 
         
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           DOE Secretary Chu honors ORAU employees for Japan crisis response 
           FOR IMMEDIATE  RELEASE 
            Nov. 7, 2011 
          FY12-08  
           Sixteen ORAU  employees received U.S. Department of Energy Secretarial Honor Awards for their  work supporting the agency in responding to the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear  reactor crisis in Japan. The awards were presented in Washington, D.C., by Energy Secretary Steven Chu.  
           ORAU’s  team was honored alongside National Nuclear Security Administration employees and  contractors who made up the Nuclear Incident Team that was activated as the  Fukushima reactor crisis began. In response to a radiological or nuclear  incident,  the NIT’s mission is to coordinate NNSA assets for deployment, continually  monitor deployment activities and provide NNSA management with the latest  available information. It is staffed and fully operational  within two hours of notification and remains active on a 24/7 basis for the  duration of the incident. 
           “The response teams’ extraordinary efforts under  immense pressure provided real time information to those at the highest levels  of the U.S. government who were making decisions that would impact the health  and safety of U.S. citizens in Japan, as well as to the Government of Japan,”  said Secretary Chu in the citation delivered with each award. 
           The  ORAU employees who were honored specialize in emergency preparedness and  response and support DOE through the agency’s Oak Ridge Institute for Science  Education. The following individuals received DOE Secretary’s Honor Awards: Mirentxu  Arrivillaga, Travis Bertram, Mark Breitinger, Brandon  Cavanaugh, John Crapo, Mark DeNome, Billy  Haley, Lon Horiuchi, Ted Jakubowski, Brendan Palmer, Ken Perry, Nate Russo,  Allison Saunders, Bill Shulman, Anna Sierra, Karla Tejada and Connie  White-Yelder. 
           “This is a tremendous honor and  recognition for these ORAU employees as well as the entire Nuclear Incident  Team,” said ORAU President and CEO Andy Page. “The nature of this work requires  a great deal of time, sacrifice and leadership, and all of us at ORAU congratulate  this team and thank them for a job well done.” 
           
           Additional  ORAU employees participated in other aspects of DOE’s response in Japan,  including eight employees who deployed to Japan  to support DOE Senior Energy Officials and Liaison Officers as  well as physicians and health physicists at the Radiation Emergency Assistance  Center and Training Site, known as REAC/TS, who provided consultation on  managing the health effects of radiation exposure. 
           The DOE Secretary’s  Honor Awards represent the highest level of internal, nonmonetary recognition  for DOE federal and contractor employees. The recipients of these awards are  selected by the Secretary following a panel review and are presented annually at  a ceremony in Washington, D.C. 
		 
         
           Media Contacts 
 
    Pam  Bonee 
    Director, Communications 
    Work: 865.576.3146  
    Cell: 865.603.5142  
     Pam.Bonee@orau.org   
 
 
    Wendy  West 
    Manager, Communications 
    Work: 865.576.0028  
    Cell: 865.207.7953  
     Wendy.West@orau.org   
 
 
    Nicole Merrifield  
    Communications Specialist, Communications 
    Work: 865.241.0482  
    Cell: 865.323.5762  
     Nicole.Merrifield@orau.org   
 

            
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.