ORISE: Beryllium Exposure Studies and Testing
 

     




 



  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
         
    Worker Health Studies  
    Capabilities  
   
   
      Overview  
      Illness and Injury Surveillance   
      Worker Health Research  
      Medical Data Management  
      Beryllium Exposure Studies and Testing 
       
          Testing Beryllium Vendor Populations  
          Beryllium Associated Worker Registry  
          Beryllium Testing Laboratory  
       
     
      Radiation Exposure Data Collection  
      Protecting Human Subjects  
   
   
    How ORISE is Making a Difference  
   
   
      Overview  
      Argonne Electronic Medical Records System  
      Beryllium Testing and Surveillance  
      Radiation Exposure Information and Reporting System (REIRS)  
      U.S. Department of Energy Radiation Exposure Monitoring System (REMS)  
      DOE IISP 10-Year Summary Report   
   
   
    Resources  
   
   
      Overview  
      Reports  
      Peer-Reviewed Journal Articles  
      Human Subjects Resource Book   
   
   
    How to Work With Us  
    Contact Us  
 

         
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           Beryllium Exposure Studies and Testing 
           
                
           
           Beryllium is a metal used in many industries, including aerospace, defense and nuclear weapons production. Inhaling beryllium as dust or fumes from machining or manufacturing activities can cause sensitivity in some individuals that can evolve into chronic beryllium disease (CBD), formerly known as berylliosis.  
            CBD leads to the development of small, inflammatory nodules in the lungs called granulomas, which reduce the ability of the lungs to process gases and cause the patient to cough and experience shortness of breath. Other symptoms of CBD are chest pain, joint aches, weight loss and fever. 
            Workers who have been—or potentially could have been—exposed to beryllium should receive the  beryllium lymphocyte proliferation test (BeLPT) , as the BeLPT is a key component to identify workers who are reacting beryllium and who are at greater risk of developing CBD.  
            The Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) manages a comprehensive program for the  U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)  to assess the health effects of DOE operations on employees exposed to airborne beryllium. The program encompasses: 
            
               Testing Beryllium Vendor Populations  
             DOE vendor sites that are no longer operating have tens of thousands of former employees who need medical tests related to their beryllium exposure.  
           
          

                  Beryllium Associated Worker Registry  
 ORISE collects data from 25 reporting DOE sites on nearly 20,000 workers, assisting DOE in the analysis of these data focusing on predictive indicators and risk management. 
          
           
              Beryllium Testing Laboratory  
            The ORISE Beryllium Testing Laboratory is one of only four labs in the United States that  performs the BeLPT for current and former DOE workers. 
          
         
         
           For more information, contact: 
   
   ORISE Beryllium Testing Laboratory 
    Work: 865.576.3115 
     Occ.health@orau.org  
 

   Featured Video 
            
            WATCH: Beryllium Awareness Video (15:10)  
           Toll-Free Numbers for Workers 
           
             Beryllium Vendor Screening Program: 1.866.219.3442  
             Beryllium Medical Surveillance Program: 1.866.219.3442 
           
           Related Links 
           
              ORISE Beryllium Laboratory accredited by College of American Pathologists  
              Beryllium and Chronic Beryllium Disease fact sheet  (PDF) 
              Diagnostic Workup for Chronic Beryllium Disease fact sheet  (PDF) 
              Lymphocyte Proliferation Test fact sheet  (PDF)  
              DOE Web Site for Former Beryllium Workers Surveillance Program  
           
           Download  Adobe Acrobat Reader  to view PDF files.  
            
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.