Careers: Job Description
 

     







  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
        
    Careers  
    Career Opportunities  
    Diversity  
    Our Culture  
    Scholarships, Fellowships, or Other Research Opportunities for Students and Faculty  
  
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           Job Description 
           
             Forensic Examiner 1  
 PURPOSE:  Performs duties as a qualified Forensic Examiner.  On own initiative conducts specialized analytical procedures on items, conducts examinations of evidence, and provides reports and testimony. Analysis and examinations are focused on identifying characteristics of trace evidence, to include hairs, fibers, cordage, and fabric.  
   
 ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS: 
   
   Conducts a full range of analytic procedures in laboratory settings, including examinations to identify and characterize evidence in a specialized discipline.  Prepares samples, selects and enters instrument settings, conducts scientific analyses, and tabulates results.  May perform all examinations in specific cases or a significant specialized portion of a very complex case.   
 
   
   Prepares complete laboratory reports or portions of reports and provides testimony regarding results of interpretations. Participates in liaison meetings with officials from outside agencies to facilitate mission requirements.     
 
   
   Solves a variety of analytical problems and modifies and adapts standard methods and techniques in order to examine evidence.  Reviews and interprets materials gathered from investigations.  Interprets findings of analyses conducted.  
 
   
   Participates, as needed, in the maintenance of laboratory instruments.  Maintains instruments to insure they are fully functioning, that related supplies, components, and accessories are sufficient to conduct examinations in laboratory and field operations.  Ensures that all necessary safety precautions and applicable regulations are followed.  
 
   
   Prepares and delivers scientific briefings and presentations regarding examination of trace evidence.   
 
   
   May provide training to Physical Scientists regarding preparation of evidence for examination and related functions consistent with the needs of the client.  
 
   REQUIREMENTS:   JOB QUALIFICATIONS:  Bachelors degree in Biology, Chemistry or related field and four to six years of experience required. Directly related experience performing duties described may substitute for the education requirement.  Higher level education beyond the bachelor's degree in the disciplines listed may substitute for the experience requirement.  Must have professional knowledge of the principles, theories, and methods of trace evidence in order to analyze complex materials and to adapt analytical and/or technical procedures. And at least 5 years experience in examinations.    Must have in-depth knowledge of a forensic laboratory's caseworking procedures, including quality control and safety procedures, and of the functions of other scientific and technical specialties within a forensic setting to assure that examinations are conducted according to accepted protocols and that casework is properly conducted with other responsible units.  Must have skill in oral and written communications to provide clear information regarding results of analysis and to convey opinions and findings effectively.  Knowledge of legal procedures and rules of evidence in order to handle evidence appropriately and provide effective testimony.  Knowledge of regulations, guidelines, and procedures, including security requirements and legal restrictions within a forensic laboratory setting in order to effectively carry out necessary administrative functions.  Must be able to pass FBI security background investigation; and obtain and maintain a Top Secret security clearance.    
 
         
           Career Center 
             
               
 

 
                To develop or access an existing profile and apply for this position, visit the Career Center.  
               
             
           Employment Questions? 
             Call (865) 576-6051, Monday through Friday, from 7:45 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. EDT or e-mail us at  work@orau.gov . 
          
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.