Careers: Job Description
 

     







  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
        
    Careers  
    Career Opportunities  
    Diversity  
    Our Culture  
    Scholarships, Fellowships, or Other Research Opportunities for Students and Faculty  
  
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           Job Description 
           
             Operations Planner Senior  
 PURPOSE: To manage key operational components of the Stabilization Program (STAB) and to serve as the focal point for equipment management and training. To ensure that effective relationships are maintained between NA-42 and DoD, FBI, DHS, National Laboratories, NA-40 and other emergency response/operations stakeholders. 
   
 ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS:  
 Manage and coordinate readiness activities, equipment maintenance, logistics planning, and training programs for the STAB programs. 
 *  Oversee the maintenance of the STAB component of the Equipment Management System. 
 *  Oversee the depot operations, including the development of maintenance plans and inventory schedules. 
 *  Oversee the equipment maintenance programs of STAB Program. 
 *  Oversee, coordinate with, and provide guidance to the National Laboratory Program Leads in matters pertaining to operations and readiness planning for the STAB programs. 
 *  Oversee a requirements-based training program for the STAB depot staff and maintenance techs, including the development of training requirement; development of training plans; and, development and maintenance of training schedules. 
 *  Participate in exercise planning and execution, including interagency coordination, attending planning conferences, and serving as evaluator. 
 *  Oversee the capture and tracking of exercise after actions and corrective actions for the STAB program.   
 Coordinate with the FBI, National Laboratories and other DOE organizations to maintain and execute Stabilization training. 
 *  Perform site surveys to determine acceptable locations for the courses. 
 *  Ensure relationships are maintained between all parties involved. 
 *  Perform AAR and incorporate feedback in to next course series.  
 Interface with DoD, FBI, and other agencies, as appropriate, to ensure policies, plans, and procedures are consistent and coordinated.  
 Assist in the management of the STAB component of the NA-42 Technical Integration program.  
 Maintain qualifications as Authorized Derivative Classifier and any other certifications that may be needed to perform the required task.  
 Coordinate with HDOC and Stabilization teams to ensure all sustainment training is coordinated through the Quarterly Training Board (QTB) process.  
 OTHER JOB DUTIES:  
 Stand watch duty for the Render Safe program as required.    REQUIREMENTS:     
 
         
           Career Center 
             
               
 

 
                To develop or access an existing profile and apply for this position, visit the Career Center.  
               
             
           Employment Questions? 
             Call (865) 576-6051, Monday through Friday, from 7:45 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. EDT or e-mail us at  work@orau.gov . 
          
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.