ORISE: Facilities
 

     




  





  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
       
    About ORISE  
    Message from the Director  
    Mission and Vision  
    History  
    Our Culture  
    Publications  
    Visiting Us  
    ORISE Facilities    
    ORISE Contract  
 
       
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           ORISE Facilities 
           The Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) is home to a number of on- and off-site facilities that support the  U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE)  science education and research mission. From on-site medical laboratories to consortium research activities at  Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) , ORISE facilities are helping to address  national needs in the following areas: 
           
             Environmental and health effects of radiation, beryllium and other hazardous materials  
             Medical and national security radiation emergency management and response   
             Education programs that help fulfill the need for future scientists, engineers, and technicians 
           
           Learn more about ORISE’s unique facilities:  
            
              Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS)  
             REAC/TS provides radiation incident response, consultation and preparedness training, and participates in simulation exercises to address the medical aspects of human exposure to radiation. 
           
            
              Cytogenetic Biodosimetry Laboratory  
             REAC/TS maintains a cytogenetic biodosimetry laboratory that supports the medical community in the evaluation, triage and management of patients with acute radiation injuries. 
           
            
               Beryllium Testing Laboratory  
             The ORISE beryllium testing laboratory is one of only four labs in the U.S. that can perform beryllium lymphocyte proliferation testing  and is one of the top two in terms of number of tests performed and  accuracy of results. 
           
            
              Radiochemistry Laboratory  
             ORISE operate a radiochemistry laboratory that performs independent analysis of environmental samples collected at survey sites. 
           
            
              ORAU Center for Science Education  
              Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU) , which manages ORISE on behalf of DOE, created the Center for Science Education to help make K-12 science, technology, engineering and mathematics education more effective. 
 
            
              University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium (UNIRIB)  
             UNIRIB is a unique user facility located at ORNL’s Holifield Radioactive Ion Beam Facility that is dedicated performing basic nuclear physics research using radioactive ion beams. 
           
            
              Pollard Technology Conference Center  
             The Pollard Technology Conference Center, located on ORAU’s main campus, provides a central meeting place for science and technology leaders as well as community members. 
           
         
         
              
            
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.