ORISE: White paper analyzes Deepwater Horizon event for improving nuclear and radiological incident planning
 

     




  



  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
         
    National Security and Emergency Management  
    Capabilities  
   
   
      Overview  
      Exercise Planning  
      Operations Support and Planning  
      Training  
      Emergency Management  
      Emergency Response  
      Crisis and Risk Communication  
      Forensic Science  
   
   
    How ORISE is Making a Difference  
   
   
      Overview  
      Exercises and Planning  
      Training and Technology Support  
   
   
    Resources   
    How to Work With Us  
    Contact Us  
 

         
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           Deepwater Horizon and Nuclear and Radiological Incidents: Common Challenges and Solutions  
             White paper analyzes Deepwater Horizon response, identifies approaches for radiological or nuclear emergency planning 
           The 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill shares many of the same  challenges associated with a radiological incident like the one considered in  the  Empire 09  exercise or even a much larger  nuclear incident. By analyzing experiences during Deepwater Horizon, these  challenges can be identified by the interagency in advance of a radiological or  nuclear emergency and solutions made available. 
           In the white paper  Deepwater  Horizon and Nuclear and Radiological Incidents: Common Challenges   and Solutions   (PDF, 462KB), ORISE examines the following three aspects of the  Deepwater Horizon response: 
           
             Establishing and staffing a  unified command structure:  The demands of the Deepwater Horizon incident challenged the traditional  response construct envisioned in the National Contingency Plan, the National  Incident Management System and the National Response Framework. The magnitude  of the Deepwater Horizon incident required a multi-layered organizational  structure and created shortages of qualified personnel with key technical and  incident management experience. 
             Managing external and political  influences: The  Deepwater Horizon incident was unprecedented in terms of political interest and  external influences. Political involvement in resource allocation, operations  and decision-making, coupled with a lack of trained and qualified personnel to  control messaging, created new incident management challenges, including  deviations from traditional decision-making processes and structures. 
             Managing  the scientific and technical aspects of the response: There was an unprecedented  demand for scientific and technical expertise, data and information during  Deepwater Horizon. For example, there was great interest in the flow rate of  oil from the wellhead, which required interpretation.  
           
           ORISE identifies how these challenges would present in  the event of a nuclear or radiological incident, with examples drawn from  Empire 09, a 2009  U.S. Department of Energy/National Nuclear Security Administration sponsored  Full-Scale Exercise to demonstrate effective management of the response to a  domestic radiological dispersion device incident in an urban environment.  Recommendations are made for considering training and process improvements that  would mitigate these challenges in future responses. 
           
 
         
              
           Download the ORISE white paper  Deepwater Horizon and Nuclear and Radiological Incidents: Common  Challenges and Solutions     
           (PDF, 462KB) 
           Contacting ORISE 
          
            David  Hackemeyer 

	Director, National Security and Emergency Management 
	Work: 202.955.3624 
	 National.Security@orau.org  
           
          
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.