EERE: National Weatherization Training Conference Home Page 

  
  


    





 
 
 




 
 




  
  

 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
  


  



 
  
    
     
  
    
  
 



 
  
    
  
 

 

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
    




   

  
  
   
  
   
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
       
    
    


   Search Help     
  
 More Search Options   Search  

 
 


  
 EERE Information Center 

  Programs and Offices 
 
 


      
   
  


   
   
     
     
   

   
    
  

    

      

    

          Printable Version 
    
   
   
     
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
            2011 National Weatherization Training Conference 

   
 
   
Check out this year's top  sponsors  and  exhibitors !
   
 

 December 13 - 15, 2011 
The New Orleans Convention Center 
New Orleans, Louisiana 
 The 2011 National Weatherization Training Conference, sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy, is held every two years to address the national training needs of the staff, trainers and other individuals who have consistently contributed to the advancement of the Weatherization Assistance Program. The Program serves every county in the nation with more than 900 local agencies. Over the last 35 years, the Weatherization Assistance Program has gained a solid reputation as the nation's core program for delivering energy efficiency services to low-income households. More than 7 million households nationally have experienced energy efficiency, and health and safety gains through the Weatherization Assistance Program. 
 The 2011 National Weatherization Training Conference will bring together more than 2,400 persons from across the nation, including state and local decision makers, program managers, and technicians. The Conference provides opportunities to network with colleagues and share best practices among peers. From the pre-conference workshops on Monday to the closing plenary on Thursday, this event is guaranteed to inform and enrich. 
 
 Conference Registration 
Registration Now Open!  Register online today !  
To register by fax or mail, download a copy of the  Registration Form  . 
 
Pre-Conference Sessions, December 12: Half-day trainings for $50, full-day for $100 
Full Conference Registration, December 13-15: $395  
 
 
 2011 National Recognition Awards 
 Submit your nominations here  for the National Recognition Awards and Richard M. Saul Lifetime Achievement Award. The nomination deadline is October 31, 2011. 
 
 
 Hotel Accommodations and Travel Information 
Discounted Accommodations Now Available! 
Please visit the  NWTC Accommodations website  to make your reservation today. 
 Shuttle Services 
Please visit the  NWTC Airport Shuttle website  to make your reservation today. 
 
 
 Conference Agenda 
View the  2011 draft agenda  , the  2011 NWTC agenda at-a-glance   and the  conference agenda shell   
 
 
 Sponsors and Exhibitors 
Interested in becoming a corporate sponsor or exhibitor? Learn more about our  exciting sponsorship  and  exhibit opportunities  today. Additionally, check out this year's top  sponsors  and  exhibitors ! 
 
 Questions 
 Contact the DOE events hotline at 202-973-8609 or email:  weatherization@courtesyassoc.com  
           
           
           


              
                
                      Printable Version 
                
                

         
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
       
    
    
   Search Help     
 More Search Options   Search  
  
 
 

  
 EERE Information Center 

  Programs and Offices 
 
 
   

 
      


  

   






 





 
 Skip footer navigation to end of page. 
 

  Weatherization Assistance Program Home  |

 EERE Home  |  U.S. Department of Energy  
 Webmaster  |  Web Site Policies  |  Security & Privacy  |  USA.gov  




 

 Content Last Updated: 11/10/2011