ORISE: Media Center
 

     




   



  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
         
    Media Center  
    News Releases  
    News Archives  
    Videos  
    RSS Feeds  
    Calendar of Events   
    Leadership Team  
    Subject Matter Experts  
    Publications  
 
         
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           
             Media Center 
             Looking  for the latest news about the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  (ORISE)? The ORISE Media Center offers an extensive collection of media  resources, including news releases, photos, media contacts, links to ORISE  publications, background information and videos. 
           
           News Releases 
            DOE Secretary Chu honors ORAU employees for Japan crisis response  
           Sixteen ORAU employees received U.S. Department of Energy Secretarial Honor Awards, presented by Energy Secretary Steven Chu, for their work supporting the agency in responding to the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear reactor crisis in Japan.  
            ORISE report shows graduation, enrollment rates for nuclear engineering  candidates are still at highest ranges reported since 1980s  
           After a one-year decline, the number of graduate and undergraduate nuclear engineering degrees earned in the United States bounced back in 2010. A recent report from the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education shows enrollments of both undergraduate and graduate nuclear engineering students are still in the highest ranges reported since the early 1980s.  
            MEDIA ADVISORY: REAC/TS International Symposium to include sessions on the Fukushima crisis   
           The crisis at the Fukushima Daiichi plant reminded the world that we are vulnerable. The response to this emergency is among the topics to be discussed at the 5th International REAC/TS Symposium on the Medical Basis for Radiation Accident Preparedness.  
            ORISE Beryllium Laboratory accredited by College of American Pathologists  
           ORISE Beryllium Lab congratulated for its excellence in providing services during recent onsite inspection by Accreditation Committee of College of American Pathologists.  The inspection results in  accreditation for the second time for the lab. 
            ORAU, ORNL partnered to host college and university career center employees  
           Career center staff representing 21 colleges and universities were onsite at Oak Ridge National Laboratory Tuesday, July 12, for the first ever Career Center Discovery Event.  
            MEDIA ADVISORY: REAC/TS hosts 5th International Symposium on the Medical Basis for Radiation Accident Preparedness  
           REAC/TS—a program of the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education—
is hosting a three-day symposium titled the  5th International REAC/TS Symposium on the Medical Basis for Radiation Accident Preparedness.  
            New  Easy-to-Use Medical Field Guide for Radiation Emergencies Published by REAC/TS at ORISE  
           A new pocket field guide titled “The Medical Aspects of Radiation Incidents” has  been published as a quick reference for medical care providers treating  patients who have been exposed to or contaminated with radioactive materials 
          ORAU–managed ORISE again recognized as DOE "Legacy of Stars" site for outstanding safety and health performance  
             This is the second consecutive time ORISE has received the prestigious designation, which is held by only nine U.S. Department of Energy sites nationwide. 
            Nuclear engineering degrees decrease, enrollments increase in 2009   
           Reversing a more than five-year growth trend, the number of nuclear engineering undergraduate and graduate degrees earned in the United States declined in 2009, says a recent report from the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education. 
            ORISE report shows number of health physics Ph.D.s declined in 2009  
           Health physics undergraduate degrees increased slightly in  2009 continuing a six-year trend, but doctorate degrees reported a 40-year low,  says a report recently released by the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and  Education. The report also showed the number of M.S. degrees was 21 percent  less than in 2008. 
            Lester to lead ORISE’s scientific and technical peer review program  
           Oak Ridge Associated Universities has appointed Tony Lester as  director of  the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education’s program focused on  scientific peer review . Lester has been serving in  this role in an acting capacity since September 2009. 
            All Current News Releases  |  News Release Archives  
 
           Follow ORISE  on Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Flickr 
           Stay in  the know about ORISE news and happenings by following us on various social media outlets.  
           Twitter: Follow us at  http://twitter.com/ORISEConnect  or add us to your follow list using @ORISEConnect. 
            
           Facebook: You can keep up with the latest ORISE news on Facebook. Be sure to click the “Like” button when you visit  ORISE on Facebook . 
            
           YouTube: Check out our video collection,  share them with friends, or leave comments on ones you like on the  ORISE YouTube channel .  
             
           Flickr: Browse a collection of ORISE event and program photos that are available for viewing on the  ORAU-ORISE Flickr gallery . Please note that if you republish these images, credit must be given to the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education.  
          
          

            
           
           ORISE Fact Sheets 
           
              ORISE Fact Sheet  (PDF, 430 KB) 
              Environmental Assessments and Health Physics Fact Sheet  (PDF, 866 KB) 
              Health Communication Fact Sheet  (PDF, 340 KB) 
              National Security and Emergency Management Fact Sheet  (PDF, 600 KB) 
              Radiation Emergency Medicine Fact Sheet  (PDF, 400 KB) 
              Science Education Fact Sheet  (PDF, 325 KB) 
              Scientific Peer Review Fact Sheet  (PDF, 270 KB) 
              Worker Health Studies Fact Sheet  (PDF, 315 KB) 
           
           
         
          
           
             ORISE in the News 
             
               Growing sustainability movement offers job opportunities  (Atlanta Journal-Constitution Nov  3 2011)  
               ORNL offers research with top investigators in their fields  (DiversityCareers.com March 2011) 
              ORISE gets ‘Legacy of Stars’ status  (Knoxnews.com Oct 22 2010) 
             
           
             
           Media Contacts 
 
    Pam  Bonee 
    Director, Communications 
    Work: 865.576.3146  
    Cell: 865.603.5142  
     Pam.Bonee@orau.org   
 
 
    Wendy  West 
    Manager, Communications 
    Work: 865.576.0028  
    Cell: 865.207.7953  
     Wendy.West@orau.org   
 
 
    Nicole Merrifield  
    Communications Specialist, Communications 
    Work: 865.241.0482  
    Cell: 865.323.5762  
     Nicole.Merrifield@orau.org   
 

            
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.