ORISE: Nuclear engineering degrees at highest ranges since 1980s
 

     







  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
         
    Media Center  
    News Releases  
    News Archives  
    Videos  
    RSS Feeds  
    Calendar of Events   
    Leadership Team  
    Subject Matter Experts  
    Publications  
 
         
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           ORISE report shows graduation, enrollment rates for nuclear engineering  candidates are still at highest ranges reported since 1980s 
           Report also shows shifts in career opportunities beyond graduation in nuclear utilities 
           FOR IMMEDIATE  RELEASE 
            Nov. 2, 2011 
            FY12-04  
           OAK RIDGE, Tenn.—After a one-year decline, the number of graduate and undergraduate nuclear engineering degrees earned in the United States bounced back in 2010. A recent report from the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education shows enrollments of both undergraduate and graduate nuclear engineering students are still in the highest ranges reported since the early 1980s.  
           Despite the continued growth trend in enrollments and degrees, the report also revealed that the reported plans of graduates show fewer had plans to work at nuclear power plants and utilities.  
           The ORISE report,  Nuclear Engineering Enrollments and Degrees Survey, 2010 Data , surveyed 32 U.S. academic programs and included students majoring in nuclear engineering or a program equivalent to a major.  
           Graduate, undergraduate nuclear engineering degrees increased from last year 
            After briefly declining in 2009, the number of B.S. degrees increased in 2010 but still remains 2 percent lower than in 2008. The number of graduate degrees reported in 2010 also increased. While the number of master's degrees is still in the highest ranges reported since 1985, doctoral degrees increased in 2010 but are still 11 percent below the number reported in 2008. According to the report, a total of 859 nuclear engineering B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. degrees were granted in 2010 (specific breakdowns can be found in the report). 
           Additionally, the ORISE report breakdown showed that Pennsylvania State University led the way in numbers of B.S. degrees, with 50 granted in 2010. The highest for master's degrees, the University of Michigan granted 40 M.S. degrees, which is not surprising considering the university had the highest number of B.S. degrees granted in 2009. For the second year in a row, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology granted the highest number of Ph.D. degrees at 15.   
           Enrollment in nuclear engineering programs at its highest since 1982 
            In 2010, nuclear engineering enrollments for undergraduate and graduate students were up 18 percent and 19 percent, respectively, when compared to 2009. There were nearly 1,800 junior and senior nuclear engineering undergraduate students, which will likely generate an increase in the number of bachelor's degrees earned over the next two years. Also, graduate student enrollments totaled more than 1,500. Both undergraduate and graduate enrollment numbers represent the highest reported enrollment since 1982.  
           Employment opportunities in nuclear utilities for new graduates may have shifted 
            The ORISE report also looked at post-graduation plans reported for 2010 graduates and concluded that there are several shifts in employment opportunities for new graduates. Specifically, reported plans of 2010 B.S. graduates to work for nuclear utilities is significantly lower than was the case in 2008 (the last year placement data was collected).  
           There were 70 B.S. graduates employed at nuclear utilities in 2008, yet two years later, in 2010, that number dropped to 49. The number of Ph.D. graduates employed in nuclear utilities also dropped from 3 in 2008 to just 1 in 2010. M.S. graduates, the only category of graduates to increase their employment numbers at nuclear utilities, rose to 30, up from 18 in 2008.  
           "The current economic downturn has kept some retirement-seeking nuclear employees working longer than they anticipated, and loan guarantees for the construction of new, nuclear power plants may fall victim to budget restrictions, which would obviously mean less opportunities for new graduates," said Dr. Dick Toohey, ORAU's associate director of environmental assessment programs and former HPS president. "However, because a significant number of nuclear engineers are still expected to retire in the near term and because nuclear energy continues to be a viable alternative to other carbon-emitting sources, it's likely that our country will still experience a nuclear renaissance."  
           In addition to nuclear utilities, the report also covers employment rates for other nuclear-related businesses. 
           Since the 1970s, ORISE has collected and/or monitored data on enrollments and degrees in science and energy-related fields of study for the U.S. Department of Energy and other federal agencies.  
           To view the ORISE report, go to  Nuclear Engineering Enrollments and Degrees Survey, 2010 Data  (PDF, 26 KB).  
		 
         
           Media Contacts 
 
    Pam  Bonee 
    Director, Communications 
    Work: 865.576.3146  
    Cell: 865.603.5142  
     Pam.Bonee@orau.org   
 
 
    Wendy  West 
    Manager, Communications 
    Work: 865.576.0028  
    Cell: 865.207.7953  
     Wendy.West@orau.org   
 
 
    Nicole Merrifield  
    Communications Specialist, Communications 
    Work: 865.241.0482  
    Cell: 865.323.5762  
     Nicole.Merrifield@orau.org   
 

            
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.