ORISE: Visiting Us
 

     




  

  
 



  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
         
    About ORISE  
    Message from the Director  
    Mission and Vision  
    History  
    Our Culture  
    Publications  
    Visiting Us  
    ORISE Facilities    
    ORISE Contract  
 
         
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           Visiting Us  
           If you are visiting the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) and need assistance locating our main campus in Oak Ridge, Tenn., or one of our program offices across the country, browse the maps below to find detailed directions. Area information for Oak Ridge and Knoxville is also provided for those visiting the ORISE main campus. 
           Office Locations  
           Find ORISE facilities across the country, including maps and directions. 
           Map  
            
           Directions and Search Results 
            
           Visitor Information  
           All Oak Ridge Main Campus visitors must report to the MC-100 lobby (located at 100 ORAU Way) for sign-in  and badging, with the exception of any visitor in possession of a valid DOE  badge. 
           In the event a visitor is expected to arrive after visitor control hours (8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday), an ORAU/ORISE employee may sign for the visitor badge, but must ensure the visitor signs the log upon arrival. 
           Visitors to the Oak Ridge South Campus must be badged/signed in by the visitor control representative at Buildings SC-1, SC-10, SC-100 and SC-200). 
           Visitors to our program offices outside of Oak Ridge should report to the appropriate facility and a representative will provide a badge and require the visitor to sign the log. 
         
         
          
           Locations 
           
             Oak Ridge, TN 
             
                
                Main Campus 
                100 ORAU Way 
                Oak Ridge, TN 37830  
               
                  Map  
                  Directions from the Airport  
                  Map of Campus  
               
              
              South Campus 
                1299 Bethel Valley Road 
                Oak Ridge, TN 37830  
               Radiation  Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site 
                150 East Vance Road 
                Oak Ridge, TN 37830  
                Pollard Technology Conference Center  
                210 Badger Ave. 
                Oak Ridge, TN 37830  
             
             Arvada, CO 
             
                
                Worker Health Surveillance 
                9950 W. 80th Ave., Suite 17 
                Arvada, CO 80005  
               
                  Map  
                  Directions from the Airport  
               
             
             Cincinnati, OH 
             
                
                Dose Reconstruction 
                4850 Smith Road, Suite 200 
                Cincinnati, OH 45212  
               
                  Map  
                  Directions from the Airport  
               
             
             Belcamp, MD 
             
                
                U.S. Army Research Participation Programs 
                4692 Millennium Drive 
                Suite 101 
                Belcamp, MD 21017  
               
                  Map  
                  Directions from the Airport  
               
             
             Washington, D.C. 
             
                
                National Security and Emergency Management  
                1140 Connecticut Ave. NW 
                Suite 350 
                Washington, DC 20036  
               
                  Map  
                  Directions from Reagan Airport  
                
               
                
                National Security and Emergency Management  
                1120 Connecticut Ave. NW 
                Suite 1050 
                Washington, DC 20036  
               
                  Map  
                  Directions from Dulles Airport  
                
               
             
             Stafford, VA 
             
                
                National Security and Emergency Management  
                5 Le Way Drive 
                Suite 125 
                Fredericksburg, VA 22406  
               
                  Map  
                  Directions from the Airport  
               
             
             Sacramento, CA  
             
                
                California Homeland Security Exercise and Evaluation Program (CA HSEEP) Office 
                1130 K Street 
                Suite   100 
                Sacramento,   California 95814 
               
                  Map  
                  Directions from the Airport  
               
             
           
           Airport and Maps 
           
              McGhee Tyson Airport  
              City Guide for Oak Ridge, Tenn.  
              City of Oak Ridge Maps  
              City of Knoxville Maps  
           
           About Oak Ridge 
           
              City  of Oak Ridge  
              Oak Ridge Chamber of Commerce  
           
            
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  

  
  
  
  
  

 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.