ORISE: REAC/TS Continuing Medical Education Courses
 

     




  




  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
        
    REAC/TS  
  Capabilities   
   
   
      Overview  
      Emergency Response Services  
      Radiological Incident Medical Consultation  
      Cytogenetic Biodosimetry  
      Continuing Medical Education 
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
          Advanced Radiation Medicine  
          Health Physics in Radiation Emergencies  
          Pre-Hospital Radiation Emergency Preparedness  
          Agents of Opportunity for Terrorism  
       
     
     
   
    How ORISE is Making a Difference   
   
   
      Overview  
      International Training  
      RANET Asset  
      CBL BioDoseNet  
      CBL’s Empire 09 Support  
      NASA Support  
      International Partnerships  
      AWA  
   
   
    Resources   
   
   
      Overview  
      Guidance for Radiation Accident Management  
      Hospital Triage Article  
      Dose Estimates and Compendia  
      Radiation Treatment Medication Package Inserts  
      Cytogenetic Biodosimetry Laboratory Video  
      Cytogenetic Biodosimetry Laboratory Brochure  
   
   
    How to Work With Us  
    Contact Us  
  
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           Continuing Medical Education 
           
              
           
           The Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at the Oak Ridge  Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) teaches accredited continuing  education courses in radiation emergency medicine. Physicians, physicians’ assistants, nurses, emergency medical technicians, health physicists and first  responders benefit from the lectures, discussions and hands-on exercises as  they learn their roles in the medical management of a radiation incident. 
           Courses  are scheduled throughout the year at the unique REAC/TS facility in Oak Ridge, Tenn. Additionally, REAC/TS prepares and teaches customized courses at  hospitals, nuclear facilities and other locations across the country. 
           ORISE, which is managed by  Oak Ridge Associated  Universities , is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education  (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians. ORISE takes responsibility for the content, quality and scientific integrity of this ACCME  activity. Respective courses are also accredited by the American College of  Emergency Physicians and the American Academy of Health Physics. 
           These  educational activities are designated for a certain number of American Medical  Association Physician’s Recognition Award (AMA PRA) Category 1 Credits™ (see  specific course descriptions linked below for number of credits).  
           The  following courses are regularly delivered at the REAC/TS facility: 
            
              Radiation  Emergency Medicine  
             This 3?-day course is intended for physicians, nurses, nurse practitioners and physician assistants who may be called upon to provide emergency medical care following a radiological or nuclear incident.  
           
            
              Advanced Radiation  Medicine  
             This 4?-day course includes more advanced information for medical practitioners. It is primarily for physicians, clinical nurse practitioners and physician assistants desiring an advanced level of information on the diagnosis and management of ionizing radiation injuries and illnesses. 
           
            
              Health Physics in Radiation Emergencies  
             This 4?-day course is designed primarily for health physicists, medical Physicists, radiation safety oficers  and others who have radiation dose assessment and/or radiological control responsibilities. 
           
            
              Pre-Hospital Radiation Emergency  Preparedness  
             This 1?-day course is specifically designed for pre-hospital First Responders to include Public Safety, Emergency Medical Services  personnel including Paramedics and Paramedic Instructors, and Emergency Planners who would be involved in planning, preparedness and/or response to a radiological or nuclear incident. 
           
            
              Agents of Opportunity for Terrorism  
             This course provides 14 hours of information related to emergency medical response to toxic industrial chemicals, industrial materials and radioactive materials. 
           
         
         
           
            Customized Courses  and Distance Learning 
           ORISE can  provide customized  courses that focus on specific topics related to the medical management of  radiation emergencies. Courses can be delivered at a pre-defined location or  can be scheduled at the REAC/TS facility in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
            ORISE also  continues to strengthen the infrastructure necessary to provide training  opportunities via distance learning. For participants who cannot attend our  training courses in person, opportunities are offered for viewing live demonstrations  on managing and decontaminating patients who have been in a radiation incident.            
          
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.