ORAU–managed ORISE again recognized as DOE "Legacy of Stars" site for outstanding safety and health performance
 

     







  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
         
    Media Center  
    News Releases  
    News Archives  
    Videos  
    RSS Feeds  
    Calendar of Events   
    Leadership Team  
    Subject Matter Experts  
    Publications  
 
         
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
            ORAU–managed ORISE again recognized as DOE "Legacy of Stars" site for outstanding safety and health performance 
           ORAU safety and health director honored for excellent program leadership           
            
            FOR IMMEDIATE  RELEASE:  
            Oct. 20, 2010 
            FY11-02  
           OAK RIDGE, Tenn.—The Oak Ridge Institute for  Science and Education, which is managed by Oak Ridge Associated Universities,  was recently named a 2010 Legacy of Stars site. This is the second consecutive time  ORISE has received the prestigious designation, which is held by only nine U.S.  Department of Energy sites nationwide. ORISE first  achieved this designation in 2008 .           
             
             ORAU and ORISE received three awards from DOE recognizing outstanding safety performance. Pictured L to R: Contractor Champions Award plaque honoring Robert Kapolka, ORAU director of environment, safety and health; 2010 Legacy of Stars trophy; 2010 Star of Excellence plaque 
           
           To earn  a Legacy of Stars designation, a site must participate in  DOE's Voluntary Protection Program  and achieve the Star of Excellence Award, for three consecutive years. ORISE has maintained this status for five consecutive years through  the continued pursuit of safety and health excellence, the implementation of  outstanding outreach and mentoring efforts, and by maintaining a recordable injury rate that is 75 percent better than the average of comparable U.S.  businesses. 
 In addition, Robert Kapolka, ORAU director of environment, safety and health, was  one of only four safety program leaders recognized by DOE as a "Contractor Champion" for his excellent performance in advancing ORISE's participation in  DOE's Voluntary Protection Program. 
           "Safety is integral to everything we do, so achieving  this elite designation validates our work and the safety-focused culture we strive  to create," said Andy Page, president and CEO of ORAU. "In addition to leading  our safety efforts, Bob Kapolka is a tireless mentor, sharing our VPP best  practices with other organizations. He is a tremendous advocate for safety in  our industry." 
           Oak Ridge Associated  Universities (ORAU) is a university consortium leveraging the scientific strength of 98  major research institutions to advance science and education by partnering with  national laboratories, government agencies, and private industry. ORAU manages  the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education for the U.S. Department of  Energy.  
         
           Media Contacts 
 
    Pam  Bonee 
    Director, Communications 
    Work: 865.576.3146  
    Cell: 865.603.5142  
     Pam.Bonee@orau.org   
 
 
    Wendy  West 
    Manager, Communications 
    Work: 865.576.0028  
    Cell: 865.207.7953  
     Wendy.West@orau.org   
 
 
    Nicole Merrifield  
    Communications Specialist, Communications 
    Work: 865.241.0482  
    Cell: 865.323.5762  
     Nicole.Merrifield@orau.org   
 

            
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.