New Easy-to-Use Medical Field Guide for Radiation Emergencies Published by REAC/TS at ORISE
 

     







  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
         
    Media Center  
    News Releases  
    News Archives  
    Videos  
    RSS Feeds  
    Calendar of Events   
    Leadership Team  
    Subject Matter Experts  
    Publications  
 
         
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           New  Easy-to-Use Medical Field Guide for Radiation Emergencies Published by REAC/TS at ORISE 
           Field Guide Available as Free ePub  for Smart Phones 
           FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
            Dec. 6, 2010 
            FY11-4 
           
                
             New  medical field guide created by REAC/TS prepares healthcare providers to treat  patients exposed to or contaminated with radioactive materials. 
           
           Oak  Ridge, Tenn. – A new pocket field guide titled “The Medical Aspects of Radiation Incidents” has  been published as a quick reference for medical care providers treating  patients who have been exposed to or contaminated with radioactive materials.  Written by certified health physicist Steve Sugarman, Dr. Ronald Goans, Dr.  Seaton Garrett and Gordon Livingston, Ph.D. of ORISE’s  Radiation Emergency Assistance  Center/Training Site  in partnership with the U.S. Department of Energy, the  guide includes: 
           
             Basic  radiation protection concepts, terminology, and definitions 
             Occupational  exposure and radiological terrorist exposure risks 
             Guidelines  for initial medical response to acute local and whole-body injuries 
             Rapid  radiation dose assessment 
             Patient  and wound decontamination techniques 
             Biodosimetry,  or observing biological reactions to determine the radiation dose 
             Delayed  effects of radiation exposure, and 
             Psychological  considerations 
           
           “Health care providers are expected to treat patients  injured in a multitude of possible scenarios, and radiation incident victims could  be seen in any hospital due to accidental occupational exposure or a  radiological attack,” explained Dr. Albert Wiley, medical and technical directorof REAC/TS. “While DOE can  rapidly deploy REAC/TS to assist in radiation accidents anywhere in the world,  it takes time to arrive on site. Our goal is to arm health care providers with some  basic information they need to effectively handle the immediate medical management  of radiological emergencies.” 
            “I found the field guide to be an excellent,  handy compilation of the basic  decision-making material necessary for the proper medical response to  radiological incidents,” said Douglas M. Coldwell, M.D., Ph.D., professor of radiology and director of vascular  and interventional radiology at the  University  of Louisville .  
           Daniel Blumenthal,  Ph.D., a certified health physicist and manager of Consequence Management  Programs with DOE’s National Nuclear Security Administration noted that the  guide has also been well received among many of DOE’s federal headquarters  representatives. 
           ORISE has made the guide available for download at no cost from  its Web site at  http://orise.orau.gov/reacts/resources/radiation-accident-management.aspx .  Users can download it as an ePub, which is a file format that is compatible  with various e-book reader software applications to optimize the text display  for any smart phone or other mobile device. In addition, the guide is available  in print form to those attending any of the approximately 30 training courses  REAC/TS offers around the world each year. 
           REAC/TS is an ORISE facility  managed by Oak Ridge Associated Universities for the U.S. Department of Energy with  the mission to strengthen the medical response to radiological and nuclear  incidents. REAC/TS provides 24/7 medical support and deployment to provide  emergency medical consultation for incidents involving radioactive materials  and ionizing radiation worldwide. REAC/TS also conducts ongoing research into  the biological effects of radiation and provides continuing medical education  for healthcare providers. 
           
         
           Media Contacts 
 
    Pam  Bonee 
    Director, Communications 
    Work: 865.576.3146  
    Cell: 865.603.5142  
     Pam.Bonee@orau.org   
 
 
    Wendy  West 
    Manager, Communications 
    Work: 865.576.0028  
    Cell: 865.207.7953  
     Wendy.West@orau.org   
 
 
    Nicole Merrifield  
    Communications Specialist, Communications 
    Work: 865.241.0482  
    Cell: 865.323.5762  
     Nicole.Merrifield@orau.org   
 

            
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.