ORISE: Internships, Scholarships and Fellowships in science and engineering
 

     




  



  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
         
    Science Education  
    Capabilities    
   
     
        Overview  
        Workforce Analysis and Program Evaluation  
        Program Administration  
        Science Education Events  
        Mentor Training  
        Center for Science Education  
     
   
    Internships, Scholarships and Fellowships   
   
     
        Overview  
        Undergraduates  
        Graduate Students  
        Recent Graduates  
        Postdocs  
        Faculty  
     
   
    Research Experiences   
   
     
        Overview  
        Undergraduates  
        Graduate Students  
        Recent Graduates  
        Postdocs  
        Faculty  
        K-12  
        Mentors  
     
   
    How ORISE is Making a Difference   
   
     
        Overview  
	    Postdoc Fellowships in Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy  
        Stay Rates Impact of Foreign Students  
        ORNL Recruitment  
     
   
    Publications   
    How to Work With Us  
    Contact Us  
 

         
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           Internships, Scholarships and Fellowships 
           ORISE offers hundreds of science education experiences at national laboratories and federal agencies 
           The  Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) administers  a broad range of internships, scholarships, fellowships  and research experiences. These programs are  available to science and engineering students and educators at every academic level from K-12, to college students and postdocs, to university faculty members. 
           ORISE programs include research experiences at Department of Energy national laboratories as well as other federal agencies with research facilities located across the country as well some positions outside the United States. 
           To find the program or position best suited to your needs and experience, start by choosing the academic classification below that best matches your current status.  
          
 
    Undergraduates  
     College students currently pursuing a bachelor’s degree; opportunities include academic scholarships, as well as summer internships and laboratory positions taking place during the academic year.
   
 
   Graduate Students  
   College students who have completed a bachelor’s degree in a science-related major and are currently pursuing a master’s degree or higher. 
 
   Recent Graduates  
   For those who have recently completed an associate’s, bachelor’s, or master’s degree and now seek a
    position providing practical experience in a laboratory setting. 
   
 
    Postdocs  
   Researchers who have recently completed a science or engineering Ph.D. and are searching for opportunities to continue research in their area of specialty. 
   
 
 
    Faculty  
     Current college and university faculty looking for collaboration opportunities at national laboratories or other federal research labs; available programs include faculty/student programs, summer research opportunities, and sabbatical experiences. 
   
 
 
              K-12 Students and Teachers  
             Teachers and students from kindergarten through high school looking to enhance science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education. 
           

            
           
           
         
          
           ORISE Participant Experiences 
           Want to learn more about some of the research appointments  offered through ORISE? 
           One of the best ways is to meet former research participants and hear about their laboratory experiences in their own words. 
           Meet former ORISE research program participants by clicking the links below: 
           
              Undergraduate Profiles        
              Graduate       Student Profiles  
              Recent       Graduate Profiles  
              Postdoctoral  
              Faculty Profiles  
              Mentor Profiles            
           
          
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.