ORISE: Beryllium Laboratory Accredited by College of American Pathologists
 

     




  



  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
         
    Media Center  
    News Releases  
    News Archives  
    Videos  
    RSS Feeds  
    Calendar of Events   
    Leadership Team  
    Subject Matter Experts  
    Publications  
 
         
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           ORISE Beryllium Laboratory accredited by College of American Pathologists  
 Lab is one of only four in U.S. certified to perform beryllium lymphocyte proliferation test 
           FOR IMMEDIATE  RELEASE:  
            Aug. 12, 2011 
            FY11-41 
           
                
             Linda Nichols, MS, MT(ASCP) and Beryllium Lab manager, loads blood samples into a centrifuge that will spin samples to separate the lymphocytes from other blood components. This is the first step in the beryllium lymphocyte proliferation testing process. 
           
           OAK RIDGE, Tenn.—The Accreditation Committee of  the College of American Pathologists, or CAP, awarded accreditation again to  Oak Ridge Associated Universities Beryllium Laboratory, located in Oak Ridge,  Tenn., based on the results of a recent onsite inspection. 
           ORAU’s laboratory is one of  only four in the United States certified to perform the beryllium lymphocyte  proliferation test. This test helps to determine if a person has developed sensitization to beryllium, which could  evolve into chronic beryllium disease also known in the past as berylliosis. 
           The laboratory’s  director, Donna Cragle, PhD and vice president of ORAU’s Occupational Exposure  and Worker Health Programs, was advised of this national recognition and  congratulated for the excellence of the services being provided. ORAU’s beryllium laboratory is one of more  than 7,000 CAP-accredited laboratories worldwide. 
           “Recertification is a  major achievement for the lab and its staff,” said Cragle. “This continued success is testament to the strict  quality standards and meticulous attention to detail exercised every day by our  highly capable lab staff led by Linda Nichols, our lab manager.” 
           In 2010, the lab processed  nearly 5,100 tests without a single error. 
           The federal government  recognizes the CAP Laboratory Accreditation Program, begun in the early 1960s, as being equal to or more stringent than the government’s own inspection  program. 
           During the CAP accreditation  process, inspectors examine the laboratory’s records and quality control  procedures for the preceding two years.  CAP inspectors also examine laboratory staff qualifications, as well as  the laboratory’s equipment, facilities, safety program and record in addition
          to the overall management of  the laboratory. This stringent  inspection program is designed to specifically ensure the highest standards of  care for all laboratory patients. The  motto of the CAP inspection team is “every patient deserves the gold standard.” 
           ORAU’s beryllium lab received  CAP accreditation in 2009. 
           The  College of American Pathologists (CAP) is a medical society that serves more than 17,000 physician members and the  laboratory community throughout the world. It is the world’s largest association composed exclusively of  board-certified pathologists and is widely considered the leader in laboratory  quality assurance. The college is an  advocate for high-quality and cost-effective patient care. More information about the College can be  found at  www.cap.org . 




           
         
           Media Contacts 
 
    Pam  Bonee 
    Director, Communications 
    Work: 865.576.3146  
    Cell: 865.603.5142  
     Pam.Bonee@orau.org   
 
 
    Wendy  West 
    Manager, Communications 
    Work: 865.576.0028  
    Cell: 865.207.7953  
     Wendy.West@orau.org   
 
 
    Nicole Merrifield  
    Communications Specialist, Communications 
    Work: 865.241.0482  
    Cell: 865.323.5762  
     Nicole.Merrifield@orau.org   
 

            
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.