Careers: Job Description
 

     







  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
        
    Careers  
    Career Opportunities  
    Diversity  
    Our Culture  
    Scholarships, Fellowships, or Other Research Opportunities for Students and Faculty  
  
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           Job Description 
           
             Sec Mgr Technology Systems  
 PURPOSE: To serve as Section Manager Technology Systems (Windows, Web, and SQL Section), including oversight of employees, management of budgets, and operations of the IT Computing Assets assigned to the section. Manage Windows, Web, and SQL projects, relationships with Enterprise Services Team, Desktop Team, Technology Solutions, Service Desk, and Cyber-Security. Lead or participate in key team in the ITS Department. Participate in Enterprise Architecture and IT Governance committees to align resources (people and equipment) to meet the needs of Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU). 
   
 ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS:  
 Manage ITS's Windows, Web, and SQL section (employees, budgets, and operations) to oversee development, deployment and maintenance of infrastructure services including Windows Domain, Active Directory, E-Mail Infrastructures, File/Print, and Web and SQL Infrastructures. Recruit, hire, and develop employees for staffing. Plan and manage performance of assigned employees. Define and document the System Life Cycle. Develop budget estimates and manage spending. Develop annual operation plans and manage resources to achieve team objectives. Measure and report on operational effectiveness. Integrate safety, security, and quality into all aspects of the work. Work with other teams in Information Technology Systems (ITS) to assure close technical integration.  
 Manage Customer Relationships: Work closely with Business Units to establish trust and common understanding of ORAU's IT capabilities, constraints, and potential. Maintain customer needs assessments and understanding of their goals. Collaborate with ITS management and customers' to develop strategic and operational plans for infrastructure services. Support other ITS teams (Client Services, Technology Solutions, and Service Desk) in their delivery of services.  
 Lead and Participate in Enterprise Architecture: Work within enterprise architecture framework and IT Governance to gather business input on ITS Service offerings. May lead IT Governance sub-committee as assigned. Research emerging technologies and develop proposals and plans to consolidate/improve IT Services, reduce risk, or provide new business offerings.  
   
 Leadership and Teamwork: Continuously maintain personal leadership skills. Assure management-level organizational alignment, awareness, and skills. Serve as a role model to train employees and peers on continuous improvement approaches and tools, standard processes, and application of ORAU key values (safety, security, diversity, and quality) as outlined in the ORAU performance management program. Serve on assigned teams: member - ITS leadership team for management-level training; member- business continuity, disaster recovery; lead (or backup lead) cyber crisis response activities.  
 Proactive Cyber-security: Oversee staff are following cyber-security policy and procedures, ensure systems are configured, patched and maintained appropriately including managing the life cycle of systems. Request changes, exceptions and mitigation for cyber security controls that are impacting business mission. Provide Security metrics for quarterly and yearly review of information system. Participate and lead section efforts in yearly review and update of Authority to Operate (ATO).    REQUIREMENTS:   Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Information Technology, or related field and a minimum of nine years' job related experience required. Must have skill and expertise in managing IT professionals in a team oriented environment. Budget management - estimating, cost control, and procurement experience required. Technical (IT) Project Management experience required. Experience in System Administration, networking, DBA or IT Infrastructure work required. Must have skill and expertise in technical and business writing. Leadership experience (team leadership, IT strategic planning, strategic alignment, and problem resolution) required. Knowledge of ITIL and continuous improvement is desired. Must have strong collaboration and facilitation experience. Technical background and knowledge of system administration, disaster recovery systems, storage systems, virtualization, networking, IT Service Delivery, and Cyber Security practices required. Must have skill and experience with ITIL Foundations and service management terminology and concepts. Must be able to obtain and maintain a DOE security clearance.    
 
         
           Career Center 
             
               
 

 
                To develop or access an existing profile and apply for this position, visit the Career Center.  
               
             
           Employment Questions? 
             Call (865) 576-6051, Monday through Friday, from 7:45 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. EDT or e-mail us at  work@orau.gov . 
          
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.