ORISE: National Security Training Opportunities
 

     




 



  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
         
    National Security and Emergency Management  
    Capabilities  
   
   
      Overview  
      Exercise Planning  
      Operations Support and Planning  
      Training 
       
          CSEPP Training  
          HSEEP Training  
          Spokesperson Training  
          Incident Command System Training  	
       
     
      Emergency Management  
      Emergency Response  
      Crisis and Risk Communication  
      Forensic Science  
   
   
    How ORISE is Making a Difference  
   
   
      Overview  
      Exercises and Planning  
      Training and Technology Support  
   
   
    Resources   
    How to Work With Us  
    Contact Us  
 

         
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           National Security and Emergency Management Training 
             
              
           
           Because it can be difficult to pinpoint when a threat to national security or public safety will occur;
federal, state and local planners and emergency management personnel
must continuously  practice their  immediate and long-term response plans through exercises and training opportunities. 
           Special training exercises that test
            a broad scope of actions and outcomes provide an accurate picture of readiness
            and allow for changes to be made to preparedness plans. The  Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) offers training  courses to assist government agencies and organizations evaluate emergency procedures, resource readiness, interagency  cooperation, communication efforts and and other key response areas. 
 Training  is integrated with our other support functions to provide ongoing and comprehensive  assistance to government agencies. Examples of training opportunities offered by ORISE include: 
           
              Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program (CSEPP) Training  
             ORISE works closely with CSEPP to provide training that addresses the most effective industry practices including the use of technology to enhance preparedness and response. 
           
           
              Homeland Security Exercise and Evaluation Program (HSEEP) Training  
             ORISE’s revised HSEEP training course for the state of California integrates technology and a new toolkit for exercise scheduling, design, development, implementation, evaluation and  improvement planning. 
 
           
              Spokesperson Training  
             ORISE prepares communicators with the skills necessary to  address low-trust, high-concern issues, such as transportation of radioactive materials, occupational exposures and other emergency-related events. 
           
           
              ICS Training  
             ORISE teams with the Emergency Management Services International (EMSI) to offer ICS training for DOE federal team leaders and response assets to enhance their ability to integrate into a incident  or unified command setup. 
           
         
         
             
            
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.