ORISE: Safety is our top priority
 

     




  



  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
         
    Safety  
    Integrated Safety Management  
    Voluntary Protection Program  
    VPP Star Status  
    Environment  
    Work Smart Standards  
 
         
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           
           Safety at ORISE 
           At the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) safety  is our number one priority. We not only have a tradition of safety  at work, but strongly encourage our employees to carry this mindset  beyond the workplace and into their homes and communities.  
           
           Employees  are trained in how to work safely and are required to sign a safety pledge that affirms their commitment to safety. The pledge also obligates them to watch out for each another, challenge and report unsafe working  conditions, follow all safety policies and procedures, and never take  shortcuts at the expense of safety. 
           For  ORISE employees, the word “safety” includes the environment, as well as the minimization of waste and the prevention of pollution. Safety also involves the health of our workers.  
           As a critical function of operations, ORISE’s Environment, Safety & Health office manages the safety program through: 
           
              Prevention - ORISE  remains focused on prevention activities and services as the primary means of achieving its commitment to excellence in safety, health and environmental programs. 
              Leadership - ORISE serves as a catalyst in implementing model environment, safety and health programs  for the DOE community. 
             Service - ORISE  maintains on-site staff who provide  expert and timely services to reduce or eliminate occupational injuries/ illnesses and hazardous exposures. 
             Continuous Improvement - ORISE  seeks out opportunities for improvement and ways to implement new technologies for enhancing program effectiveness. 
           
           At  the end of the day, safety is a part of everything we do at ORISE. Safety is  more than just a goal; it’s a way of life, both on the job and at home. 
         
         
        
           ORISE Safety Pledge 
           I promise to promote an  uncompromising safety environment and make the following commitments. 
            I shall: 
           
             Maintain a  “safety first” mindset both on- and off-the-job. 
             Be concerned for  my safety and the safety of those around me. 
             Challenge anyone—at any level—who is not being safe and accept the same challenge from my  co-workers. 
             Identify and  correct or report any and all unsafe conditions. 
             Be familiar with  and abide by ORISE safety policies and procedures, including required training. 
             Never take  shortcuts at the expense of safety. 
             Be totally  committed to safety excellence. 
           
           Safety Resources 
           
             Counterfeit Materials, Equipment and Supplies 
             DOE Suspect Bolt Headmark List  (PDF) 
             Occupational Injury or Illness 
               
                DOE Form 5484.3 Individual Accident/Incident Report  (PDF) 
                Worker Safety and Health  (Word)   Environment, Safety  & Health Protection 
               10CFR851 Final Approved  (PDF) 
               10CFR851 Letter  (PDF) 
           
                  
          
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.