ORISE: The Value of Independence, a white paper on DOE Order 458.1
 

     




   




  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
       
         
    Environmental Assessments and Health Physics   
    Capabilities  
   
     
        Overview  
        Independent Verification  
        Characterization Surveys  
        Health Physics Services  
        Radiochemical Analyses  
        Health Physics Training  
     
   
    How ORISE is Making a Difference  
   
     
        Overview  
        Environmental Characterization at ORNL a Recovery Act Success  
	    American Recovery and Reinvestment Act  
        ARRA-Funded Work Creates Opportunities for TN-based Small Businesses    
        Curtis Bay D&D   
        Survey Project Summaries  
        Health Physics Project Summaries  
     
   
    Resources  
   
     
        Overview  
        Laboratory Procedures Manual  
	    Quality Program Manual  
	    Survey Procedures Manual  
	    MARSAME Resources  
	    MARSSIM  
        MARSSIM Resources  
	    Independent Verification White Paper  
        Standards Development  
     
   
    How to Work With Us  
    Contact Us  
 

         
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           The Value of Independence 
           ORISE white paper explains how DOE Order 458.1 brings independent verification to the forefront of D&D projects 
           With the release of  DOE Order 458.1  in February 2011, the U.S. Department of Energy has made independent verification an official requirement for contractors involved in decontamination and decommissioning (D&D) projects at former nuclear sites operated by DOE.  
           In the white paper  The Value of Independence  (PDF, 500KB), ORISE provides more background on DOE O 458.1 and explains why it is important to have  radiological cleanup efforts verified by a qualified third party that is not involved in the actual cleanup process. 
 As the primary independent verification contractor for DOE, ORISE stands uniquely prepared to help D&D managers achieve compliance with this new requirement. With more than 30 years of experience, ORISE has the know-how to begin the verification process at almost any stage of a cleanup project. 
           DOE has incorporated the language requiring the independent verification of nuclear cleanup activities as an added layer of protection for the public to help ensure that former nuclear sites are safe for reuse. While this step may appear to add time and expense to a cleanup project, The Value of Independence explains how the benefits gained by providing assurance to the public that former nuclear sites have been certified as safe for use far exceeds the costs. This is particularly true if the verification process uncovers problems that have been missed during cleanup. 
           If you are affiliated with a DOE radiological cleanup project that is now required to  comply with DOE O 458.1, contracting with ORISE for independent verification is a simple process. Thanks to the ORISE contract with DOE, adding verification services is streamlined so that ORISE staff can arrive at your project site in as little as two weeks rather than several months. 
           For more information, please download the white paper and  contact ORISE if you have additional questions about DOE’s new independent verification requirements. 
             
           
         
              
            Download the ORAU white paper The Value of Independence  (PDF, 500 KB) 
          
           Contacting ORISE 
           Sarah  Roberts, CHP 

	Director, Independent Environmental Assessment and Verification 
	Work: 865.241.8893 
	 IVsurveys@orau.org  
 
             
             
            
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.