ORISE: Training and Education
 

     




 



  
 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nationÕs workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
     
        About ORISE  
        Safety  
        Careers  
        Working with Us  
        Media Center  
        Contact Us  
        Site Map  
     
      
 
      
     
    
      
     
        
    Health Communication  
    Capabilities  
   
     
        Overview  
        Research and Evaluation  
        Public Health Communication  
        Training and Education 
         
            Instructional Design and Development  
            Human Capital Planning  
            Human Subjects Protection  
         
       
        Multimedia Applications  
        Health Promotion and Outreach  
        Public Health Preparedness  
     
   
    How ORISE is Making a Difference  
   
     
        Overview  
	    CHEMPACK Mapping Application  
	    Community Assessment Tool  
	    Virtual Community Reception Center  
	    Radiation Emergency Preparedness Conference  
  	    TravelersÕ Health Campaign Wins Awards  
        Travelers' Health Campaign  
        H1N1 Media Analysis  
        Pandemic Flu Toolkits  
	    Radiological Terrorism Toolkit  
        Consumer Health Resource Information Service  
        AutoINFORM Media Analysis  
     
   
    Resources  
   
     
        Overview  
        Consumer Health Resource Information Service Guide  
        Equal Access Initiative  
        NLM HIV/AIDS Resources  
        Spanish HIV/AIDS Manual  
        How to Find Reliable HIV/AIDS Treatment Information on the Internet  
        Population Monitoring Guide  
        Radiological Terrorism Mass Casualties  
        Education in Palliative and End-of-Life Care for Oncology (EPECª-O)  
     
   
    How to Work With Us  
    Contact Us  
 
 
      
       
         
		 
          
           
		
           Training and Education 
             
                
 
           The Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE)  offers training and education opportunities to government agencies and organizations  seeking information related to  worker health,  safety, consumer health, environmental health and toxicology.  
            ORISE maintains extensive experience in instructional design, graphic art, multimedia  development, cultural competency and global health. Customized  educational programs are available for agencies and organizations needing specialized training.  
           When  appropriate, ORISE works alongside a network of internationally-recognized  communication experts to help conduct  courses and workshops. 
           ORISE's specific training and education capabilities include: 
            
              Instructional Design and Development  
             ORISE  works with  government agencies and organizations to create customized training and instructional design  programs, including traditional classroom teaching and online education.  
           
            
              Human Capital Planning  
             ORISE assesses human capital programs for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and designs training programs for qualifying officials and facility representatives. 
           
            
              Human Subjects Protection  
             ORISE performs technical assessments to help DOE laboratories ensure the protection and rights of human research  subjects. 
           
         
         
           Ê 
            
        
       
      
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
 
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.