Learning Leaders Home Page :: Learning Leaders 
 
 



	
  

  




	


 
 
 
       
     
       
         
           
           
           
           
             
           
         
       
        
     
	
	 
    About 
     
        History  
        Mission & Impact  
        Staff & Board of Trustees  
        Financials  
        Partners  
     
   
    Programs 
     
        Elementary School  
        Middle School  
        High School  
        Enrichment  
        Parent & Family Workshops  
        Corporate Opportunities  
     
   
    Volunteer 
     
        Volunteer Opportunities  
        Application Checklist  
        Great School Volunteers  
        Frequently Asked Questions  
        Preguntas Frecuentes  
        Request a Volunteer  
     
   
    Donate 
     
        Donate Now  
        Other Ways to Give  
        Tributes, Memorials & Special Occasions  
        Estate & Planned Gifts   
     
   
    Success Stories 
     
        Student Snapshots  
        Volunteer Voices  
        Learning Liaisons  
        Story Archive  
     
   
    Resources 
     
        Adult Continuing Education  
        Publications  
        Tools for Schools  
     
   
    News 
     
        Events  
        In the News  
        Media Center  
        Press Archive  
     
   
 



	
   
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  
  
    

   
	  
 
	 				 
 
 And the winner is… Literary Programs blog   
 Literary Programs is proud to announce that one of our very own  Authors Read Aloud volunteers, Tracy Dockray, has won a Moonbeam Award for her picture book, The Lost and Found Pony.   This charming story, written and illustrated by Dockray, took home the gold for best picture book for ages 4-8..... 
 Literary Programs blog »  
 
 
 
 
 Global Exchange 
 In early August, Learning Leaders hosted twenty foreign exchange students from cities and schools across China for a brief talk about public education in America and our efforts to improve it here in New York. The group of intrepid 17-year-olds was touring the Big Apple as part of a cultural exchange program... Read More  
 
 
   
  College Planning Resource Site »  
 Become a Volunteer »  
 Donate »   Nominate a Volunteer!  
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
  
    
 
	 			 News 
 
      More News » 
     
	    
 
	 				     Save the Date! 
 Learning Leaders Theater Benefit 
 
The Gershwins’ Porgy & Bess,  
   
 Richard Rodgers Theatre 
Wednesday, January 11, 2012, 8PM 
 
Tickets start at $250. To reserve your tickets  download the ticket form  or please contact  events@learningleaders.org  or 646-519-8364.   
 
  				 Opening Meeting 2011 
 Over 800 Learning Leaders volunteers and friends filled the auditorium at Columbia University on September 28 to celebrate the annual volunteer kick-off, The Opening Meeting. CBS 2 News anchor and Learning Leaders board member Dana Tyler was the special guest emcee.  Read more...   
 
  				 Check out the latest Learning Letter! 
      Read about the Learning Leaders Volunteer of the Year! See updates from all of your favorite programs!  
   
   
   
 
 
 
     
     
       
        
 
	 			 Frequently asked questions 
 
 	
		    
 
	 				 
      Do I need teaching experience or a teaching degree?   
      Where does the training occur?   
      Can I be placed near my home, job or school?   
  Preguntas Frecuentes  
 

  				  Volunteer Now!  
 
 
	     
     

      
 
	
 		  
 
	
 
   

   
    
 
	 			 Learning Leaders on Twitter 
 
 	  
 
	 				  
  
  				 
   
Yvette Torres-Schwartz is known to everyone at PS 261 as a dedicated volunteer who assists the school in a variety of ways that positively impact the lives of many... 
 
 Read more  about Yvette and our other Greal School Volunteers of the Month for October! 
  				 
 Check out Learning Leaders latest video 
    
  Family Engagement = Student Success  from  Learning Leaders  on  Vimeo . 
 
 
	  
	  
 
	
 	  
 
	 				  
           
          
          
           Share Your Stories 
            We want to hear from you   
             
           
      
  				    
    
    
 
 
	
	 
  
     Sign up for News »   
 






















	    


  
    
    
 
	 				   
    
  webmail  
 
     © Learning Leaders, Inc., 80 Maiden Lane, 11th Floor, New York, NY, 10038     (212) 213-3370
       Employment  |  Privacy Policy  |  Site Map  |  Contact Us