International Mentoring Network Organization :: IMNO.ORG 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

  
  
  

  

  

 

  

  

 

 

 
 
 
       
   
  
   
       
   
   
      
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
     
           
   
   
   
 
  
    
           
           International Mentoring Network Organization 
             
   
     
     
 
   
     
  

 
         
         
           
             
               
               
                 
                    About Us    
                  
                 
                    Mentors   
                  
				   
                    Members   
                  
                 
                    Newsletter   
                  
                 
                    Careers   
                  
                 
                     FAQ   
                  
                 
                    Contact 
                  Us   
                         
			  
      
 
   
   
   
   
      
               
			    
       
               
			   
      
                 
				
                 
                  
                 
                
				 
				  
				 
				
				 
				   
				
				
                
                
				 
				 
				  
       
				 
				 
				 
				 
				 
				 
				  
				 
				 
				
				
				
				
				 
				 
				 
				 
				
				 
				 
				 
				Updated Tuesday, Nov 29, 2011
				 
				 
				 
				 
	           
				 
				 
				 
				   
				 
				 
				   
				  Did you know you can interview a mentor of your choice?   
                    
				        
  
   

 

 
   
         
	 
	 
   
     Scheduled Interviews 
   
    18 Jan    Michael Gerber - eMyth Series      1 Jun    Ethan  Zuckerman - Berkman Center for Internet and Society    
    
    More scheduled interviews  
     
 
	 
	     
   
 

 

   
 
   
         
	 
	 
               

   
   
              
                 
                    
				     
				    
				 
 
 
              
   
     
     
            
 
 
				   
  
     
	     
   
 
				   
				 
				   
				 
				 
				 
				
				   
				 
				 
				 
				 
				           		 
				 
				 
				 
				 
				 
				 
				 
				 
				    ::Larry Bossidy::        Mentor Spotlight Former CEO of Honeywell Young managers who find a way to get along with older people than they are and take advantage of their wisdom are far more successful than those who surround themselves with everyo       ::David Neeleman:: Founder of Jet Blue and Azul Airlines If you show up for work on time and with a good attitude, you are already ahead of 80% of everybody else.        ::Jeffrey Veen:: Co-founder of Adaptive Path and Small Batch TypeKit Useful is more important than flashy. A site should provide the user with the service she or he needs, rather than try to impress and overwhelm them with brilliance.       ::Joe McCarthy:: CEO of Publicis NY Execution being strategy. Consumers don't see strategy meetings and analysis, they see things.        ::Stephan Roche:: CEO of Kapitall I was at the top of the organization. It?s a very difficult job, because every decision ends with you. You decide what it truly means to be a leader.   
				   
				 Subscribe to the IMNO Podcast and RSS feeds   
				 

  

               
                 
                 
                 
                   
                   
                   
                     
                       
                         
                           
                             
                               POPULAR INTERVIEWS 
                                Popular  
                             
                           
                         
                         
                           
                             
                               
                                 
          Co-Founder of Nouveau Riche  (viewed 24177)       CEO Dell Inc.  (viewed 21919)        More Popular Interviews:     ? Former Chairman & CEO of GE  (viewed 16573)  ? Observer  (viewed 13794)  ? Brazilian Soccer Star  (viewed 13465)  ? Interview with Keith Merrill  (viewed 11487) 
                                   
                                 
                                    
                               
                             
                           
                         
                         
                           
                             
                                
                                 Popular Interviews   
                                
                                 Requested Mentors   
                                
                             
                           
                         
                       
                       
                         
                           
                             
                               REQUESTED MENTORS 
                                Request  
                             
                           
                         
                         
                           
                             
                               
                                 
                                   
						  ? Laurie-Anne Sayles - Government and Politics   ? Anne Milner - Education, Teaching, Training, and Library   ? Chukwurah Emeagwali - Computers, IT, Internet   ? Chukwurah Emeagwali - Computers, IT, Internet   ? sherin khalil - Engineering   ? Sahaya Bennet - Computers, IT, Internet   ? Irina Burlack - Arts, Entertainment, & Media   ? Robin Mullins - Manufacturing/Production/Operations  
                                     
                                   
                                 
                               
                             
                           
                         
                         
                           
                             
                                
                                 Popular Interviews   
                                
                                 Requested Mentors   
                                
                             
                           
                         
                       
                     
                   
                   
                   
                 
                 
                 
               
              
               
                 
                 
                 
                   
                   
                   
                     
                       
                         
                           
                             
                               RECENT COMMENTS 
                                Comment  
                             
                           
                         
                         
                           
                             
                               
                                 
                                    ? alex@bpmlam.com - Founder of Jet Blue and Azul Airlines   ? goodlove2000 - Author The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People   ? goodlove2000 - Former Policeman in Pennsylvania   ? goodlove2000 - Former Policeman in Pennsylvania   ? goodlove2000 - Independent Movie Director  
                                     
                                   
                                 
                               
                             
                           
                         
                         
                           
                             
                                
                                 Recent Comments   
                                
                                 Translated Articles   
                                
                             
                           
                         
                       
                       
                         
                           
                             
                               TRANSLATED ARTICLES 
                                Translate  
                             
                           
                         
                         
                           
                             
                               
                                 
                                    CEO Dell Inc.  (Spanish)       Roberto Rivellino  (Portuguese)        More Translated Articles:     ? Presidente do America Online do Brasil  (Portuguese) 
                                   
                                 
                                 
                               
                             
                           
                         
                         
                           
                             
                                
                                 Recent Comments   
                                
                                 Translated Articles   
                                
                             
                           
                         
                       
                     
                   
                    
                   
                 
                 
                 
               
              

 
				 
				 
				 
				 
				
 
    
      
       Mentors 
     
	 
	      
	     
		  
		  Become a Mentor  
		 
		 
		     
	 
	      
	  
		  
		  Search by keyword 
		 
		 
		     
	 
	      
	  
		  
		 Search by region        
	 
	      
	  
		 
                       
                         
                         
                         
                         
                       
	     
		 
		     
	 
	
	      
	  
		  
		  Search by profession  
		 
		 
		     
	 
	
	      
	  
		  
		 Newest mentor:
		 
		
		  David Neeleman 
		 
		
		   
		
				
		 
		     
	 
	
   									
 

				 
				 
				 
				   
				 
				  
				
				 
				 
				   
				 
				 
				 
				 
				   
				 
				
 
 
   
      IMNO Poll 
   
   
      Which website functionality is most important to you?  
   

   
   
      
   Mentor Search  
   
    
      
   Discussions with Mentors  
   
   
      
   Become a Mentor  
   
   
      
   Request a Mentor  
   
   
      
   Interview a Mentor  
    
    
      
     
   
  
 
 


				 
				   
				 
				 
				 
				   
				 
				 
				 
				 
				 

				    
           
		 
		   
         
         
             
          
		 
		 Copyright ?2004-2005 International Mentoring Network Organization 
		     Advertise with Us  |  Terms of Use  |  Privacy Statement  
		 
		 
		   
		 
		 
          
		     
		 
		
		 
		  