Celebra La Ciencia 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 

 
 
   
          
   
   
      
       
          
           
              
               
                  
                   
                   
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                   
                      
                       
                            
                       
                       
                            
                       
                       
                           
                       
                       
                            
                       
                      
                      
                      
                       
                          
                          
                           
                              
                                Check out our Family Science Pages!   
                                 
                               
                                  Festival of the Building Arts  
                                  October 10, 2009 
                                  10:00 am - 4:30 pm 
                                  National Building Museum, Wash.DC  
                                   
                                 What's New:  
                                 Check out the new Get Energized scientists: 
                                  click here!   
                               
                                
                           
                          
                       
                     
                         
                      
                      
                       
                          
                       
                       
                          
                             
                                
                                   
                                      
                                      
                                         
                                            Welcome to CelebraLaCiencia.org! 
                                                   
                                                  ACCESO HISPANO (SRF) created Celebra la Ciencia (Celebrate Science) to increase Hispanic family participation in science and health education programs and raise awareness about educational and career opportunities related to science, technology, engineering, and biomedical research.  
                                               Celebra la Ciencia (CLC) facilitates interactive exhibitions, demonstrations and workshops in a variety of  settings and utilizes media, in the form of radio, newspaper, and internet to engage Hispanics in science and provide information about available resources. 
                                             CLC establishes working relationships and collaborations between local museums, community organizations, businesses, schools, colleges and universities, and the media in sites around the country, including:  
  
 
                                                Mid Atlantic , DC, MD,  VA                                        
                                               
                                             
                                                Chicago , IL 
                                               
                                             
                                                Albuquerque , NM 
                                               
                                             
                                               Denver, CO 
                                             
                                             
                                                Yakima Valley/ Tricities , WA 
                                               
                                             
                                                Los Angeles,  CA 
                                                                                           
 
    Triangle Region , NC 
 
   
                                             Each coalition provides Hispanic families with access   to informal science in their community through outreach and media. 
                                                         
                                                    Are you interested in receiving information about science and health topics?  
 Send us an  email  and we will send you our newsletter!!! 
                                             Please include  your name and home address.  
                                             Don't miss out on this great opportunity!    
                                         
                                         
                                            
                                               
                                                                                                                                                           
                                                  Upcoming Events: 
                                                    Fiesta del Pueblo:  Weekend August 29 & 30, NC State Fairgrounds, Raleigh, North Carolina  
  Fiesta Musical : Sunday Sept. 20, National Zoo, NW Washington DC 
  Fiesta DC : Sunday Sept. 27, 14th St. Columbia Heights NW, Washington DC  
            Hispanic Heritage Month  Celebration: Saturday October 17, NM Museum of Natural History, Albuquerque, New Mexico 
  See all CLC events   
                                               
                                            
                                         
                                         
                                            Student Opportunities! 
                                             Hispanic College Fund:  www.hispanicfund.org   
 MUST Scholarship Program 
Motivating Undergraduates  
 in Science and Technology 
 
 This program is open to all U.S. citizens, who are pursuing an undergraduate degree in a STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics) discipline at a college or university that is accredited in the United States are eligible for the MUST funding opportunity.  
 Students of all underrepresented groups (Women, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Native Americans and persons with disabilities) are encouraged to apply.  
 One-year partial tuition scholarship of up to one-half the tuition and fees, not to exceed $10,000 per academic year 
 Support from MUST PASS (Professional and Academic Support System) 
 Direct access to multiple mentors who will provide academic tutoring, guidance, personal and professional support, and advice regarding professional organizations, graduate school, other scholarships, and careers. The mentor team will include: 1) an assigned faculty mentor, 2) a graduate mentor, and 3) a peer mentor.  
 One point of contact -- the MUST PASS Facilitator -- to obtain additional academic support and secure institutional tutoring services in academic subjects when needed 
 Be part of a large national network of minority undergraduate and graduate students in science, technology, engineering or mathematics (STEM) through established networks of HCF, UNCFSP, and SHPE AHETEMS 
 Learn from NASA role models through the MUST Speaker Series that will bring NASA scientists and other STEM role model to SHPE student chapter meetings on campus to speak about their respective careers and serve as role models to maintain the student’s interest and enthusiasm for their STEM field of study. 
 Guidance and $5,000 stipend to participate in a summer research experience at a NASA center 
 Connections to other scholarship and internship sources through the established networks of SHPE, HCF and UNCFSP as well as other STEM-focused organizations. 
  
    Eligibility Requirements: 
 Must reside in the U.S. or Territories of the U.S. 
 Must be studying and hold full-time academic status at an  accredited college or university in the U.S. or U.S. Territory for the  2009-2010 academic year  
   
 Be a rising college freshman, sophomore or junior in Fall  2009 who plans to attend or enroll in an accredited U.S. higher education  institution as a full-time student for the 2009 - 2010 academic year. 
 Must have earned and maintain a cumulative Grade Point Average of no less than 3.0 on a 4.0 scale (un-weighted) 
 Must be pursuing a degree in a physical science, technology, engineering or mathematics.  
                                         
                                      
                                      
                                   
                                
                             
                          
                       
                       
                          
                       
                      
                   
                                  
               
              
              
           
          
       
      
   
   
      
       
                       
          Home  
          
          About Us  
          
          Media Kit  
          
          Forums  
          
          Contact Us  
          
          Find Us  
          
          Coalition Log In  
          
          Kids  
          
          Parents  
          
          Educators  
       
      
   
   
      
   
   
      
       
          
         Copyright ©2006. Celebra La Ciencia. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Web Design by  StumptownMedia.com  
          