CFE_Homepage 
 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
						   
						  
					 
					 
						  
					 
				 
			 
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
						  
					 
					 
						  
					 
					 
						  
					 
					 
						  
					 
					 
						    
					 
					 
						
					 
				 
			 
		 
	 
	 
 
	 
		 
			 
				 
					 
						 
							 
								 
									  
								 
								 
									 
										 
											 
												 

												 
 
 
 

 
    



      CFE Homepage    

      Boards and Committees    

      Publications    


 
 


  


												 
											 
										 
									 
								 
								 
									  
								 
							 
						 
					 
					 
						
						 
							 
								 
									  
								 
								 

									 
										 
											 
												 

   Events   

   Topics   

   Completed Projects  

   Newsletter  

    
											 
										 
									 
								 
								 
									  
								 
							 
						 
					 
					 
						 
							 
								 
									  
								 
								 

									 
										 
											 
												 
												Center for Education 
												The National Academies 
												500 Fifth St., NW 
												Washington, D.C. 20001 
												Tel: 202-334-2353 
												Fax: 202-334-2210 
												E-mail:  cfeinq@nas.edu 

												 
											 
										 
									 
								 
								 
									  
								 
							 
						 
					 

				 
			 
			 
				 
					 
						  
					 
					 
					 
					 
					 
						 
							 
								 
									  
								 
								 
									 
										 
											 
												 

 
 
 
   The Center for Education (CFE) promotes evidence-based policy analysis that can help to improve education for all Americans.   
 
Formed in 1999 as the locus for education activities in the  National Academies , the Center is dedicated to engaging in work that is both responsive and anticipatory: responsive to government’s and other stakeholders’ program and research interests; and anticipatory of long-term challenges, opportunities, and needs that affect the future of education research and policy priorities.   
 
The Center brings together the nation’s premier national, state, and local leaders from education, academe, industry and government to address critical national issues in education research, policy, and practice.  
 
Through studies, reports, workshops, websites and other activities, the Center informs many of the most critical issues facing education today: standards, assessment, teaching, technology, preparation of youth for productive futures, and the improvement of educational research.    
   


												 
											 
										 
									 
								 
								 
									  
								 
							 	
						 
						 
							 
								 
									  
								 
								 
									 
										 
											 
												 
 
 
 
  
 
  Recently Released!  Letter report to the U.S. Department of Education on the Race to the Top initiative. 
  
 
  
 
     read more        news release  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
   Just released!  Mathematics Learning in Early Childhood: Paths Towards Excellence and Equity  
View the report  
  
 
  
 
  
   

  
											 
										 
									 
								 
								 
									  
								 
							 
							
						 
						 
							 
								 
									  
								 
								 
									 
										  
												 
												 
												 
												 
										 
											 
												 
													 
													 
														   
														   
													 
													 
												 
											 
											 
												     
											 
											 
												     
											 
											 
												    
											 
											 
												    
											 
										 
										 
										  
									 
								 
								 
									  
								 
							 
						 
					 
				 
			 
			 
	 
 
 
			 
			 
				 
				 
					  
					 
						 
						 
							 
								 Feedback  |  Back to Top 
							 
						 
						 
							 
								Copyright @ . National Academy of Sciences.  All rights reserved.  500 Fifth St. N.W., Washington, D.C. 20001. 
								Terms of Use and Privacy Statement