EnergyTeachers.org Home 

 
 




  
 
 
 
   
  	  Ê  
     
       the network for educators interested in energy resources and use  
   
	 
      Home         Tools for teachers 
        Bibliography          Calendar  
                    Field Trips          Forum          Links          News          Projects          Teachers Goals (FAQ)          Workshops         Extra information 
        Our services                Site map          Subscribe (free)          Donate                Get involved  	  	    Contact  us    
   
  
 
   Energy education ideas for you  
   
     Attend energy education  workshops . 
     Try special  projects  in your courses. 
      Contact us  for one-on-one consultation. 
     Read our  newsletter . 
      Join  our network and receive our newsletter, for free. 
     Take your students on a  field trip . 
     Read our  FAQ  section. 
     Use our  forum  to address specific questions to the whole network of educators. 
     Follow our annotated  links  to over a thousand useful sites. 
     Read about  books and articles  about energy and energy education. 
     
   Read our story about  all the ways  we help educators. 
   Read about  our history and our operations . 
 
 
   You can help us too 
   
     Share your ideas about energy education in the  forum . 
     Write a poem about energy on our  haiku  page. 
     Pilot a special  project . 
     Connect through social sites including  Facebook ,  Second Life , and  Twitter . 
      Donate  money or materials for teachers and projects. 
     Have the companies you normally buy from online share some of the profits with our charity via  GoodShop . 
      List workshops  you're offering on our site. 
      Write an article  about energy education. 
     
       Read our  Champion  page for more ways to help. 
       
 
  
 
  
   
 
   © EnergyTeachers.org 2011 
   315 Elmwood Ave. 
    Ithaca, NY 14850 
 Helping thousands of educators since 2004, 
  EnergyTeachers.org is a public charity, IRS 501(c)(3).