Solar Training, Solar Installer Training, Renewable Energy Education - Solar Energy International 
  
 


  

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
        
     
     Cart     (970) 963-8855
     
     
  
  
 
  
 
 

  
     
     
        
   
    
   Solar Energy International - Renewable energy education for a sustainable future 
   
   
                
 
   
    Online Campus  Donate  eNewsletter    
    
       
  
 
   


      Home  
  Workshops & Courses    Course Categories:  
  Workshop Schedule  
  Online Training  
  Solar Training - Electric  
  Solar Training - Thermal  
  International Rural Development  
  Wind Training  
  Micro Hydro Training  
  K-12 Professional Development  
  Cursos en español  
  Women's Workshops  
  Continuing Education Courses  
  More Information:  
  RE Professionals Academy  
  Alumni & Career Center  
  Curriculum Licensing  
  NABCEP Certification  
  Scholarships  
  Work-Trade Program    Current Work-Trade Positions  
 
 
  Workshops FAQ  
  Downloadable Catalog  
 
 
  Business Services    Curriculum Licensing  
  Contract Training  
  Business Membership    Industry Partners  
  Outreach Partners  
  Donors  
 
 
 
 
  Outreach Programs    Solar in the Schools    School Presentations  
  Teacher Trainings  
  Solar In the Schools Partners  
  Solar School Bus  
  Answers for Younger Kids  
  Answers For Older Kids  
  Resources for Younger Kids  
  Resources for Older Kids  
  Resources for Educators  
 
 
  International Program  
  Native American Program  
  Women's Program  
  Walt Ratterman Scholarship Fund  
  RE Professionals Academy Scholarship  
  The SEI Education Fund - Support SEI  
 
 
  Resources    FAQ    Workshops  
  Online Courses  
  PV Specific  
  Solar Training Certification  
  Work-Trade  
  Educators & Kids  
 
 
  Multimedia Library  
  Solar Calculator  
  Useful Links  
  SEI eNewsletter    eNewsletter Sign-Up  
  Archives  
 
 
  Photo Gallery  
  For Students and Educators  
  Public Events & Programs  
 
 
  SEI Bookstore    Merchandise  
  Donations  
  Publications  
 
 
  About SEI    SEI Team  
  Workshop Instructors  
  Accreditation and Memberships  
  PV Lab Facility and Educational Center  
  Local Area    Carbondale  
  Paonia  
  Guemes Island, WA  
 
 
  Mission &  Vision  
  Board of Directors & Advisors  
  Press Room  
  Annual Report  
  Workshop Policies  
  Articles on Workshops  
  SEI Alumni  
 
 
  Contact Us  
 
 
 
  
   
      
       

        
     
      Support SEI      
      SEI serves and educates Native American, K-12 Schools, and International populations every year.  Your contribution, no matter the size, leads to a more sustainable future for us all. 
      Read more...      
     Read more...   

        
     
      Online Training      
      Take SEI's Online Campus with you anywhere you go and log into your course anytime of day.  Solar Training and Renewable Energy Education - Anywhere - Anytime.   
      Online Schedule      
     Online Schedule   

        
     
      Support SEI      
      SEI serves and educates Native American, K-12 Schools, and International  populations every year.  Your contribution, no matter the size, leads  to a more sustainable future for us all. 
      Read more...      
     Read more...   

        
     
      Go Pro with SEI      
      Apply the National Electrical Code (NEC) to residential and commercial  grid-direct solar electric systems to ensure safe, code-compliant design  and installation. 
      Training Schedule      
     Training Schedule   

        
     
      Go International      
      SEI's International program provides training to offer reliable energy to help with economic development in the developing world. Make a difference today! 
      Training Schedule      
     Training Schedule   

        
     
      Solar for Kids      
      Solar In the Schools educates K-12 students and teachers about the many positive steps they can take toward energy efficiency and renewable energy. 
      More Information      
     More Information   

        
     
      Contract Training      
      Customized training - SEI partners with utilities, distributors,  manufacturers, non-profit  organizations, installers and community  colleges throughout the US and  abroad.        
      More Information      
     More Information    
 
   
   
    Featured Training 
      
   Solar Training - Solar Business and Technical Sales - Online  
  
   Renewable Energy for the Developing World - Online  
  
   Wind Training - Wind Design and Installation  
  
   Solar Training - Solar Hot Water Design and Installation  
  
 
   View All Training    
    
  
   
         
            
           


      Solar Training and Renewable Energy Education 
   
 
                         
 


			      	


  
     
    Solar Certification Training from Professional Solar Installers With 20 ISPQ Certified Trainers and 24 NABCEP Certified Solar Installers —  more than any other  solar training  organization — Solar Energy International's experienced team is on the forefront of renewable energy education. If you are seeking online solar training or in-person lab training for the NABCEP Entry Level Exam or  NABCEP Installer Certification, why not receive your education from a team of the most experienced solar installer professionals in  the industry? Many of our trainers have participated in the most  notable solar installations within their communities stateside, and in the developing world.  Start your solar  training path today with Solar Energy International.                   Online Solar Training and In-person Renewable Energy Education   For  20 years, Solar Energy International has been dedicated to hands-on and online solar training and  renewable energy education in  wind, micro-hydro, sustainable building and developing world  technologies. Solar  Energy International also works with grassroots and development   organizations to promote sustainability and improve quality of life   worldwide through viable outreach programs. Ride the renewable energy   wave with training onsite or online with Solar Energy International.   

  


         Latest News from the SEI Blog  
   
    Solar Energy International Hosts Renewable Energy Expert Alex Zahnd in Carbondale  11-21-2011  Read More    Solar Energy International to Participate in Colorado Gives Day Dec. 6  11-22-2011  Read More    Solar Training Success Story at Solar Power International '11 in Dallas  11-07-2011  Read More    Solar Energy International Boosts Contract Solar Training Services   10-31-2011  Read More    Solar Energy International Expands On-Demand Online Continuing Education Series  10-26-2011  Read More       Read Entire Blog  
 Subscribe by RSS  
 Subscribe by Email   
 
 
 
    Explore SEI Video            Latest Solar News Feeds        Evergreen Solar Finds Chinese Buyer for Its Technology 
   CPV Will Help Power Global Climate Talks 
   Smart Grid Will Raise Ceiling for Use of Renewables 
   Asia Report: China Strikes Back 
   Solar in the Asia Pacific Region Booms: China's 2011 Installs May Surpass America's for the First Time 
     More Headlines                  
             


      
 
 


      
 
 


      
 
 


      
   
    “SEI offers the most comprehensive and practical training available in the country.
” 
    -- Richard Perez, Home Power Magazine    
   
 
  
 
 
 


      
    
   
    
 SEI Career Center  Career Exploration, Industry Leader Interviews, Job Posting Resources, Resume Writing Tips & More!   More Information      
   
  
 
 
    
   
    
 eNewsletter  Stay up-to-date on renewable energy news.   Sign Up!      
   
  
 
 
    
   
    
 SEI Course Catalog   Download          
   
  
 
 
    
   
    
Social Media          Become a fan on Facebook           Follow SEI on Twitter          Connect on LinkedIn          Watch SEI on YouTube          Subscribe to blog via RSS          Subscribe to blog via Email            
   
  
 
  
 
 
      
   
  
 
        
    
     
      
        Home  
  Workshops & Courses  
  Business Services  
  Outreach Programs  
  Resources  
  SEI Bookstore  
  About SEI  
  Contact Us  
  Site map  
  Log In  
       
      
       Solar Energy International 
       PO Box 715 • 76 S. 2nd St. • Carbondale, CO 81623 
970-963-8855 • fax: 970-963-8866 
 
39845 Mathews Lane • Paonia, CO 81428  
 Drupal Development  by Blue Tent Marketing 
 SEO Services  by Organic SEO Marketing