Ben Wiens...innovation consultant...innovating through synergy...value innovation, energy science, mechanical engineering, product development, economics, industrial design, intellectual property, innovation, analysis, vision, strategy, marketing, investigation, philosophy, leadership, government, conservation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Homepage 
 
 
 

  
 The European Inventor Awards are like the Oscars, but for inventors worldwide. In early 2010, myself (with beard), and Danny Epp, who I had worked with at Ballard Power, were nominated for this award. 
 European Inventor Award Highlights  
 Ben Wiens, Danny Epp Award Acceptance  
 Ben Wiens, Danny Epp nomination interview 

  
  Ben Wiens...innovation consultant  2010May30 5pg 13K  
Truthfully I don't travel around in a flying saucer. I just like to use my imagination. Albert Einstein said "Imagination is more important than knowledge". Imagination is the core of my consulting work. Great innovations however generally come through a synergy of ideas from different fields. This is often called "value innovation" and has been popularized in the book "Blue Ocean Strategy". 

  
  The Future of Fuel Cells  2010May30 11pg 57K 11fig Yr10 
Different types of fuel cells such as Solid Oxide, Polymer Electrolyte, Phosphoric Acid, Alkaline, Molten Carbonate are examined. Something not found in articles about fuel cells very often is a second-law analysis of fuel cells. Also discussed is why fuel cells are generally more efficient than heat engines.

  
  Understanding Patents  2010May30 14pg 64K  7fig Yr10 
The six different sections of a US patent are explained. Understand why patent attorneys focus only on patentability, while the issues of infringement and coverage are often ignored. Presently preliminary patent searches can be done on the Internet. The main example used is the Ballard fuel cell patent US5,176,966 which was granted as a result of research that I was largely responsible for while working there.

  
  The Future of Energy  2008Aug11 5pg 23K 1 fig Yr10 
Problems with nuclear power and deregulation of electric power may dramatically change electric powerplant technology. Solid Oxide fuel cells presently look the most promising for this market. If solar cells become efficient and inexpensive they could gain in popularity, but storage of electricity is a problem. It is not likely hydrogen will be widely used, liquid fuel is easier to transport and store.

  
  Energy Science Made Simple  2008Aug11 32pg 171K 32fig Yr12 
Advanced concepts such as thermodynamics, entropy, relativity, quantum mechanics, quantum field theory, and string theories are difficult to comprehend. Often complicated formulas and scientific jargon are used. In this booklet advanced concepts of energy are presented in a reasonably uncomplicated way.

  
  Encyclopedia of Energy Science  2008Aug11 14pg 61K 16fig Yr8 
A specialized energy encyclopedia that lists more obscure words not often found in regular encyclopedias. Explanations based on latest modern theories. Use alone or as a companion document when reading the booklet "Energy Science Made Simple".

  
  Second-law Analysis of Gas Turbines  2008Aug11 12pg 45K 11 fig Yr14 
The second-law analysis methods presented use simple formulas and concepts. No understanding of entropy is required as concepts revolve around the helmholtz-ratio. A complete set of simple formulas are provided for analyzing a gas turbine. These formulas adjust for a multitude of varying conditions such as cooling bypass, pressure ratio and pressure losses. Four popular gas turbines and two proposed designs are analyzed in detail.

  
  Urban Travel Issues  2001Mar24 17pg 81K 17fig Yr10 
Will future motor vehicle technologies solve problems of pollution, fuel consumption, or congestion? Are fuel shortages and high fuel prices in the future going to force us out of motor vehicles and into transit? Electronic road tolling could be used to radically shape traffic and more fairly raise money for transit subsidies?

  
  Ben Wiens Energy Science Downloads  2001Jun14 
Universal gas turbine cycle--MathCAD 
Fuel Cells for Distributed Power Production--Acrobat 
3D Mechanical Desktop Shows Versatility--Acrobat 
Turbo Expo Shows Off Latest In Gas Turbines--Acrobat

   
 Viewing and Printing on www.benwiens.com 
Most documents on www.benwiens.com are single html files for ease of viewing offline and printing. Printing problems can sometimes be encountered after clicking on Chapter hyperlinks. In this case reload the entire document minus the chapter hyperlinks and print.

  
 Popularity of www.benwiens.com 
Wondering how many people are accessing this website? More than just a few according to the hit counters. Presently an average of 250 unique visitors arrive at this site per day and view about 130,000 html documents per year.
 
   COPYRIGHT ? 1999-2010 All  rights  reserved 
Ben Wiens Consulting Inc. Metro Vancouver BC Canada