Score18.com 
 
 

 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 

 

 
	 
	    
		         
		
		
		 
			 
				
				 
					   
				 
				
				
				 
					 
 
					     
					       
    						 
    						   
    						   
    						   
    						    
    							  
    							 
    							 
    							 	 
					     
					   					
					 
				 
				
				
				 
					 
					 
						 
						    
							 
							   
							     
							       
							         
							           
							             Search Our Site 
							               
							           
							         
							       
							     
							     
							       
 
 

 
 
 
     
  

   
       
       
   
   
 	
 
							     
						         
							       
							         
							           
							              
							               
							           
							         							      
							       
							     
							     
							       
							         
							           
							             
		 
		    
 Home 
 Login / Register  
 Enter Scores 
 My Scorecards 
 My Handicap 
 Course Handicap 




     
		 
													
													 
						            golfing, birdie putt, golf course, fairway, pitching wedge, chip shot, par 
								   
							           
							         							      
									 
							     
							     
							         
							     
							     
							       
							        
							       
							     
							     
							        
							       
							     
							     							       
							      
  
Copyright © 2011 
Score18.com 
All rights reserved
 
 

							     						    							    
							   
							 
							
							
							 
							   
							     
							      
 

   

 

 
Welcome to Score 18 - the simplest place to track your golf scores and golf handicap online!
 


 
	 
		 

 
 
	 
		 

  							
							 
								 
									     
								 
								 
									    
									  Scorecard Tracking  - You will have the ability to Enter, Edit, and Delete your golf scorecards.  All scorecards are kept in history, even scorecards beyond your 20 most recent used in the handicap calculation.  
								 
								 									
									    
									  Personal Handicap Report  - A personal handicap report will be available to you in real time, and updated automatically after each score is posted.  Handicaps are calculated precisely to USGA standards.  
								 
								 									
									    
									  FREE!  No Trial Period - because it's Free! 
								 								
							 

		 
	 
 
 

		 
		   
		 
		
 
	  
	  
	  
	         Golf Handicap Estimater  
	  
	  
	         Enter your 3 best rounds in recent memory to estimate your your handicap.  Calulation is a variation of the USGA formula.  
	  
	  
	  		  
	         18 Holes 
	         9 Holes 
	         Score 
	         Course Rating 
	         Slope Rating 
	  
	  
	         Round 1 
	  		   
	 		   
	  		   
	  		   
	  		   
	  
	  
	         Round 2 
	  		   
	  		   
	  		   
	  		   
	  		   
	  
	  
	         Round 3 
	  		   
	  		   
	  		   
	  		   
	  		   
	  
	  
	  		       
	  
	  
	  
			  USGA Course Rating and Slope Database.  CR and Slope should be on your scorecards. 
	 
	 
 

		 
	 
 


  
  

 




 
							     
							    
							   
							 
						 
					 
					 
				 				
			 		
		 
				
		
		     