Golf hints, tips, tactics, equipment and course reviews 
 


 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
  

 
 

 
 
 
  
   
     
     
     
     
     
     
   

   
     
     
     
     
   
   
      MAIN  ¥  EQUIPMENT REVIEWS   ¥  GOLF COURSE REVIEWS  ¥  ABOUT SHAVE 5 STROKES!  ¥  SHAVE 5 BLOG  
      
   
   
      SCOTT SAYS  ¥  CLIFF SAYS  ¥  SWEET DEALS  
      
   
   
     Ê  
     
 
          
            How badly do you want to school your boss? Your buddies, or coworkers?  
              
            
             Are you tired of losing to your associates by a slim margin?  Do you want to have the bragging rights?  Maybe the cost of buying the beer at the 19th hole is getting you down?  Shave5Strokes can help; we are your best resource for golf hints, tips, tactics, and reviews, and the best guide to improving your score.   Currently, we review all manner of golf equipment, and notable golf courses in the GTA and Simcoe regions of Ontario, Canada. As we grow, Shave Five Strokes will be increasing our scope to include courses all over Canada, the United States, and other world destinations renowned for golf. 
             
               
                 We want to offer you more than just a guide to playing better golf. We want to help you improve your game, choose the right equipment, and never waste your money on an unworthy course; and most importantly, appreciate the greatest game ever! Let's face it, all courses and equipment are not created equally, however, you can find a diamond in the rough if you know where to look... 
                  
               
             
             The Simcoe region is the northern reach of Central Ontario. This area is not as densely populated as the GTA, and is one of the most scenic parts of this province. There are more golf courses in this area than almost anywhere else in Ontario, and it is a short drive to many of the most elite courses this province, even this country, has to offer. Notably, Taboo, the home course of Canadian PGA star Mike Weir is just north of this region in Muskoka. The Muskoka region is also home to Rocky Crest, and the greatly anticipated Wyndance, designed by the one and only Greg Norman. Just to the South in the GTA is where you will find world famous tour course Glen Abbey, designed by the legendary Jack Nicklaus. 
             ShaveFiveStrokes was written by me personally based on my experience, and sheer lust for golf. However, what you may not know is the wealth of knowledge I have managed to squeeze out of many respected, and learned golf professionals. You will see many articles written either by the Shave Five Strokes team, or by many different contributing course pros.  
             ShaveFiveStrokes deals with gripping, swing mechanics, shot address, stance, aiming, and club selection. I will re-enforce good habits, and blow away the myths of the game. 
             
               
                 You would never believe what a difference the right equipment can make to your game. You have to know what to look for in your choice of equipment; high end equipment can make all the difference in the world, however, selecting the wrong model or make can be a colossal waste of money.  
                  
               
                          How does playing with classic blade style irons measure up to weighted cavity back irons? Why should I spend the money to buy Callaway or Titleist? What is the advantage to buying a mallet style putter versus a blade style? What is the difference in balls; why buy Titleist when I can buy a cheaper brand? 
             These are the kind of questions that every golfer has, and may have a hard time finding answers. I have been the guy in the golf shop with all these questions, standing like an idiot staring at all the pretty clubs in the store wondering when someone is going to assist me. Finally, someone asks if they can help you, and then proceed to tell you what everyone is buying, not what you need or will help your game.  
             Wishing you all the Birdies you can sink, 
               
             
               Get a free 
                preview of "The Painter's Tip" from 
                the upcoming Shave5Strokes guide; your best resource to lower 
                your score, and improve your golf game. 
               
                 
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  Name 
                 
                 
                    
                
                      
                         
                        
                   
                    
                  
                      Email  
                   
                    
                 
                      
                         
                        
                   
                     
                 
                 
                   
                 
                
                  
                  
               
              
         
         
              
           Ê 
         
       
      
       Ê 
     
   
   
     
     
     
     
   
   
      
          
            
            © 2005 by CVK DESigns Inc. All Rights Reserved  
           Web 
            Design by 
             CVK 
            DESigns.com  and  Bart 
            Smith, TheMarketingMan.com