GHIN.com: Golf Handicap and Information Network 
 

  
 
     
 
 
 


  

  
  

  
 

	 
 
           
         
         
         
                
    
     
 
 

       
 
  
 
 

  
 
 
     
         Handicap Lookup 
         Post Scores 
     
   
 
     E-mail Update 
     Solutions 
     Our Associations 
     News 
 

         
         
            GHIN: Golf Handicap and Information Network
            
     

     
     
         
             
                  
             
                
     
         
             
                
                 
                     
                         
                            
                            
   
 
     
        Username:
     
     
             
     

     
        Password:
     
     
             
     
     
     
             Remember me  
     
    
      Forgot Password?  
 
     
              
     
    
     
         Create a profile   |   More Information 
     

 



                         
                        
                     
                 
             
         
     

                 
                 
                
                
                                
             
             
                 
                    
                     
                        
     
         
             Our Solutions 
               
  
	   eGolfer 
      »
      Create your complimentary online dashboard - stocked full of features!    eClubhouse™ 
      »
      Looking for an online presence and eCommerce solution for your club?
   GHIN Handicap Program™ 
      »
      The GHIN Handicap Program software provides for scores to be 
electronically routed from any club within the GHIN network.    GHINClub.net 
      »
      Powerful web-based management of your club data!   Tournament Pairing Program® 
      »
       Comprehensive tournament program, commanding enough
 for the power user, yet easy for the new user to set up and score any 
tournament.    eRevision 
      »
      Receiving a handicap revision has never been more convenient! 
 
         
     
     
         
               
  
	  USGA Celebrates Handicap System Centennial At Baltusrol   By Hunki Yun, USGA October 28, 2011 
     
   Springfield,
 N.J. – In the 100 years since the United States Golf Association 
implemented the USGA Handicap System™ during a meeting at Baltusrol Golf
 Club on October 11, 1911, millions of golfers of all skill levels have 
used the system to play millions of matches at thousands of courses 
around the country. 
 When the USGA returned to Baltusrol to celebrate the Handicap System 
Centennial, keynote speaker Michael Bamberger, a senior writer for Sports Illustrated,
 recalled one particular match that took place nearly 20 years ago. He 
had visited The Greenbrier in West Virginia to interview Sam Snead, who 
was then in his 80s and was the resort’s pro emeritus. 
 Snead invited Bamberger to a match on the resort’s C.B. 
Macdonald-designed layout, now known as The Old White TPC. Snead was 
playing to a 4 handicap at the time, and Bamberger, who had a 12 
handicap, recounted Snead’s gamesmanship and first-tee efforts to 
negotiate favorable terms for the match. 
 Despite Snead’s efforts, Bamberger made a net birdie on the par-5 
17th hole to win the match, and the journalist remembered how 
disappointed the competitive Snead had been after losing. At Baltusrol, 
Bamberger marveled at how the Handicap System allowed an average golfer 
to play a fair match against a legend, one of the best players ever. 
 The 140 guests at Baltusrol traveled from all over the country to 
support this democratic ideal, one of the hallmarks of the Handicap 
System. It was a night to celebrate not only the USGA, but also the 
dozens of authorized golf associations that administer the Handicap 
System and conduct course ratings of thousands of courses for the 
benefit of millions of golfers. 
 USGA Handicap Committee Chairman Brigid Shanley Lamb, who is also a 
member of the USGA’s Executive Committee, praised the contributions of 
the associations, 50 of which were represented. 
 Special recognition went to the Metropolitan Golf Association (MGA) 
and the New Jersey State Golf Association (NJSGA), represented by their 
executive directors, Jay Mottola and Stephen Foehl, respectively. These 
two associations played key roles in the years leading up to the 
implementation of the USGA Handicap System. Leighton Calkins, the 
pioneer of handicapping in the United States and a member of the USGA 
Executive Committee, had tested his methods at both the MGA and NJSGA 
before the USGA adopted his system nationwide. 
 Another special guest was Dr. Lou Riccio, an original member of the 
Handicap Research Team, which the USGA formed in the 1970s to study and 
improve the inequities and inefficiencies of the Handicap System. One of
 the outcomes of their research was the Slope System, which allowed for 
the portability of a USGA Handicap Index® for the first time. 
 Also addressing the gathering were USGA President Jim Hyler, who 
offered a toast to the Handicap System, and USGA Executive Director Mike
 Davis, who introduced Bamberger. In addition, many USGA staffers, as 
well as members of the USGA’s Executive, Handicap Procedure and Women’s 
committees, came together to mark the centennial, a special night in the
 long history of the USGA.   Hunki Yun is a senior writer for the USGA. Contact him at hyun@usga.org. 
   
 
         
     

                     
                 
             
         
         
            
    

 
     
         
             
                 GHIN LINKS 
                  Post a Score  
                  Handicap Lookup  
                  E-mail Address Update  
                  Our Associations  
                  GHIN.com Mobile  
             
         

         
             
                 RELATED LINKS 
                  History  
                  Get GHIN at your Club  
                  Contact  
                  FAQ's  
             
         

         
             
                 HANDICAPPING 
                  Establishing a Handicap Index  
                  Handicap Seminars  
                  Handicap Education  
                  USGA Handicap Department  
             
         


         
             
                 USGA LINKS 
                  Revision Schedules  
                  Join the USGA  
                  Ratings Lookup  
                  Course Handicap Calculator  
                  USGA.org  
             
         

         
              
         
     
     
         
            © 2005-2011 USGA  All rights reserved 
         

         
             Privacy   |   Terms & Conditions  
         
     
 

         
     
     
  
  
  
 
    
       
 
  
 
 
    
 

 
    Advertisement
    
       
 
 