Open Site 
     
     
     
     
     
     
   

  
  

   
 






 



 
     







 
 
 


 
 












   
   
    
     
      
        home  

      
           log in  
      

      

      
          apply to edit         
      

        help   

      

     

    

    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
         
          
        
  
   
   
                 
                   [  history  ] 
                 
            
   
    
    Welcometo  Open-Site.org , afree, trusted, online encyclopedia. Open-Site is edited by volunteer editors and its content is freely available  for everyone under the  GNU Free Documentation License . You can help grow Open-Site by  becoming an editor , then you will be able to write and review content.
   
  
 
  
  
   
   
                 
                   [  history  ] 
                 
            
   
    
       did you know?
    
   
    
       
Asbestos   
Mesothelioma is a form of cancer that forms on the mesothelium, a membrane that forms the lining of several body cavities.  Often, mesothelioma is caused by  exposure to asbestos .  Mesothelioma is considered to be a rare form of cancer and around 2,000 cases of mesothelioma are diagnosed in the United States yearly.  Since exposure to asbestos can cause mesothelioma, most individuals who develop the cancer have been exposed to asbestos dust.  
  
To learn more read our article  about mesothelioma .
   
  
 
  
  
   
   
                 
                   [  history  ] 
                 
            
   
    
       top pages
    
   
    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Arts                           Literature ,  Movies ,  Music ,  TV ...                             Home                           ConsumerInformation ,  Cooking ,  Family ...                                                                           Business                           Employment ,                         Investing ,                         Marketing ...                             Recreation                           Aviation ,                         Food ,  Humor ,                         Pets ...                                                                           Computers                           Internet ,                         Programming ,                         Software ...                                                    Science                           Astronomy ,                         Chemistry ,                         Math ,                         Physics ...                                                                           Games                           BoardGames ,  Gambling ,                         VideoGames ...                             Society                           History ,  Issues ,  People ,  Religion ...                                                                                                  Health                           Conditions and Diseases ,  Medicine ...                                                    Sports                           Baseball ,  Hockey ,  Olympics ,                         Soccer ...                                                                           Regional                           Africa ,  Asia ,  Canada ,  Europe ,                         Oceania ,  United States ...                                                                                                                                           
   
  
 
  
  
   
   
                 
                   [  history  ] 
                 
            
   
    
     International                     Deutsch ,                   Español ,                   Français ,                   Greek ,  Italiano ,                   Român? ,  Russian ...
   
  
 
  
           
             
  
   
    
     
                 
                   [  history  ] 
                 
            
      search 
    
    
   
  
  
   
           Enter your search terms             Web      open-site.org     Submit search form                   
   
  
 

           
       
   

 

 
 
 All text is available under the terms of the  GNU Free Documentation License . (See  Copyright Policy  for details.) 
 
 


   
    
     
      

 


 
Visit our sister sites 
 dmoz.org  | 
 mozilla.org  | 
 chefmoz.org  | 
 musicmoz.org