Horschel one of many chasing future at q-school - Golf - Yahoo! Sports 
   
   
   
   
   
        
        
  

    
    
       
     
    
     
     
     
     
     
               
   
   
        
  
 
 

 
 

   
    
            
       
         
          
                     Skip to search.                                          New User? Register                Sign In   	 		Help	                         Make Y! My Homepage          Yahoo!   Drag the "Y!" and drop it onto the "Home" icon.  Select "Yes" from the pop up window.  Nothing, you're done.    If this didn't work for you see  detailed instructions    Close this window                                                                   Mail           My Y!        Yahoo!                                                                    Yahoo! Sports                                                        Search                                        Search Web                                                                                     
          
         
        
           
            

           
        
             
      
          Home    NFL    MLB    NBA    NHL    NCAAF  

 
   
      
     
       
          NCAA Football  
          NCAA Football Recruiting  
          NCAA Football Video  
          Rivals.com Home  
       
     
      
   
 

   NCAAB  

 
   
      
     
       
          NCAA Men's Basketball  
          NCAA Women's Basketball  
          NCAA Basketball Recruiting  
          NCAA Basketball Video  
          Rivals.com Home  
       
     
      
   
 

   NASCAR    Golf    UFC    Boxing    Soccer    Action Sports  

 
   
      
     
       
          GrindTV Home  
          Skate  
          Surf  
          Snow  
          Outdoor  
          Bike  
          Motocross  
       
     
      
   
 

   More  

 
     
        
       
         
            Olympics  
            Tennis  
            Arena Football  
            Investigations  
            Aussie Football  (AU) 
          Junior Hockey  
            CFL  
            MLS  
            Cricket  (IN) 
            NCAA Baseball  
            Cycling  
           Rugby (UK) 
            Formula One (UK) 
          Winter Sports  
             Horse Racing  
            WNBA  
            IndyCar  
            All Sports  
           
         
            Facebook  Twitter  
            Rivals.com  Rivals High  
            Yahoo! Sports Radio  
            Yahoo! Contributor Network  
            Video  Blogs  
            Scoop Du Jour  
            My Sports News  
            Expert Analysis  News  
            Photos  Transactions  
         
       
        
     
   

       ThePostGame    Games    Shop    Fantasy    
      
     
    
        Golf Home    Pro Tours    Video    Photos    Blog    Twitter    Tickets   PGA Tour:   Leaderboard    Schedule & Results    Stats    Players    
    
       
      
              
      
     
 
    
   
    
      
       
        Sports Search 
        
       
        
           
        
       
         
      
      
    
   
   
     Trending Now: 
           
          Fantasy Football  
  BCS Rankings  
  New Orleans Saints  
  NY Giants  
  NBA Lockout  
       
   
 
 
   

   
     

 


    
     
       
        
        
         
           
            
            
 Horschel one of many chasing future at q-school 
 
  
   
     
       
        By Brian Wacker,  PGATOUR.COM 
        14 hours, 52 minutes ago
       
     
   
 
                 
        
           
     
        
      
        
     
          
           
           
             
               
                
                
  PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla.—A year ago at q-school,  Billy Horschel  had to wait until the final hole of the final round to see if he would get a PGA TOUR card. Thanks to a bogey by  Will Strickler —a former teammate of Horschel’s at the University of Florida—Horschel made it on the number and got his card. 
  Fast forward to the final month of the 2011 season and Horschel was in a similar predicament, this time needing to play his way up from the depths of the money list to secure his playing privileges for next season. 
 

 In his first 19 starts this year, Horschel had missed 13 cuts and earned just under $200,000. Over his next five starts, however, he didn’t finish outside the top 30, which included a tie for 10th at the Reno-Tahoe Open and a tie for seventh at the Frys.com Open, where he shot a final-round 65. 

                 
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                   
  
 

                 
                  He followed that with a pair of 64s the first two rounds of The McGladrey Classic, where he went into the final day trailing by a shot and seemingly destined to avoid a return trip to what many consider golf’s toughest tournament. 
  Instead, he shot 75 to tumble into a tie for 20th. 
  “I was more nervous about playing well,” Horschel said. “I didn’t want to mess up at all. It wasn’t my day.” 
  Or his week. 
  A few days later Horschel missed the cut at the Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals Classic to finish outside the top 125 on the final money list. As a result he’s headed back to q-school, which begins Wednesday at PGA West. 
  “I wish I would’ve had a week or a couple more days [after McGladrey] to deflate,” Horschel said. “I practiced [at Disney] Tuesday and Wednesday and you get out there and nothing’s really happening. You’re trying not to think ‘God, I need to play well.’ 
  “I was just worn out from the week before. I didn’t handle [McGladrey] the way I wanted coming in.” 
  As a result, Horschel, who had spent much of his rookie season in 2010 on his couch following season-ending wrist surgery in February, will be making his third trip to q-school in as many years. 
  He was successful each of the last two trips, but it’s not a place many imagined the former Gator would be. 
  In 2006, Horschel won individual medalist honors at the U.S. Amateur, where he posted an opening-round 60 before becoming a four-time All-American at the University of Florida. He was twice named the Southeastern Conference Player of the Year and in 2007 posted a 3-1 record in the Walker Cup. 
  Horschel turned pro in 2009 and later that year finished seventh at q-school, seemingly destined for a permanent spot on the TOUR. 
  But just four starts into the 2010 season, Horschel tore a tendon in his left wrist. He didn’t play again until August on the Nationwide Tour, where he missed four of five cuts. 
  “You may be healthy, but your confidence and the way you think and feel out there isn’t the same, and the trust take a little bit longer,” Horschel said. “You make compensations for having a bum wrist and when you come back healthy you try to get out of those bad habits. 
  “It took me longer than I thought and I probably stood in my own way.” 
  The only thing standing in the way of a now healthy Horschel is six days of q-school. 
  If there’s a positive for Horschel, it’s that by finishing 140th on the money list he will at least have conditional status on TOUR next year—meaning he would likely get something in the neighborhood of 15 or more starts. 
  That of course is not the case for most in the field this week at PGA West, where Horschel thinks his experience will be a benefit. 
  “I’m not in a dreadful place where I’m trying to figure out what I’m going to do next,” Horschel said. “If I do what I did the last couple of months I’ll be fine.” 

                
                 
                  
                  
                   Updated 14 hours, 52 minutes ago 
 
     
         
           
            
             Email 
            
           
           
            
             Print 
            
           
     
     
        
         digg 
        
        
         add to facebook 
        
        
         del.icio.us 
        
        
         Twitter 
        
     
 
                 
               
             
           
           
           
         
             
       
        Top Golf Stories
       
       
         
                 
           
            
            
              Hallberg, Freeman top Champions Q-school
            
             Hallberg, Freeman top Champions Q-school 
           
                  
           
            
            
              Stacy to be inducted into Hall of Fame
            
             Stacy to be inducted into Hall of Fame 
           
                  
           
            
            
              Presidents Cup newcomers shine for US
            
             Presidents Cup newcomers shine for US 
           
         
         
       
       
          
       
     
         
  
 
        


              
                 
                      1 Comment 
                 
                 
                                             
                             Show: 
                             
                                 Newest First  Oldest First  Highest Rated  Most Replied 
                             
                             
                             
                             
                                 Sort 
                             
                         
                 
              
                         
                          
                          Post a Comment 
                              
                 

                  
             
       
                 
            0 users liked this comment
                     Please sign in to rate this comment up. 
                     Please sign in to rate this comment down. 
                    0 users disliked this comment    dharma bob    8 hours ago   Report Abuse    you might want to change your nomme de plume, Mr "Wacker"      
          
              Post Comment 
               Sign in   to post a comment, or   Sign up   for a free account.
          


        
       
     

    
     
       
          

             
              Related Articles  
        Launch Article Browser              
           You might also like Popular Stories 
                       
                           
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Tough new low for winless NFL team 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Broncos in playoff hunt 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Peterson ties NFL mark 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Johnson apologizes to Jet 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Why owners won dispute 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 LeBron's tour canceled 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Age rule apt to remain 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Back-to-back-to-back? 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Pro football player's staggering punt 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 McFadden's light workout 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Cards' Kolb may return 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Indy schedule gets tough 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 The NBA's 15 best free agents 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 NBAers in China may regret decision 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Miami's biggest need 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Ohio State football hires Urban Meyer 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Olympic darling Lindsey Vonn's sad news 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Vonn pulls out of event 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Man U kids can't play 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 QB makes blunder you rarely see 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Two teams in trouble 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Players' tricky return 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Sunday's best players 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 What his wife knew 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Report: Ohio State hires Urban Meyer 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Forde: Meyer not credible 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 NFL winners, losers 
               
                          
               
                
               
               Browse 
               
                 Sunday's worst players 
               
             
             
          
                  
     
        
        
        
        
 
   
     MORE SPORTS NEWS 
         
        
       PGATOUR.com 

     
       
   
     
       Tour Report: Caption this: Rhys Davies  
       Tour Report: Congratulate Kuchar, Woodland  
       Tour Report: Final field: Chevron World Challenge  
       Duval, Weekley among big names to advance to final stage  
       Tour Report: Watch: Day 4 recap  
     
   
    
 

        
        
        
 
        Yahoo! Sports Blogs    
         
         
             
                  Devil Ball Golf   | Golf 
                       Martin Kaymer still won’t follow McIlroy, Westwood to PGA Tour   Jay Busbee November 28, 2011     United States duo wins first Omega World Cup in 11 years   Shane Bacon November 27, 2011   Two years ago this weekend, everything in golf changed forever   Jay Busbee November 26, 2011                
          
     
       More Devil Ball Golf  »   
 

         
             
               Video Spotlight 
             
             
                                 
  	             
                
  	             PlayPlay Video 
                 
  	             
  	              Round 4 Recap: OMEGA Mission Hills World Cup  
  	             In final-round play from the OMEGA Mission Hills World Cup, the American Team of Matt Kuchar and Gary Woodland rally to win by two strokes. 
  	             Posted Nov 27 2011 
  	             More:  Golf video  
  	             
  	                              
  	             
                
  	             PlayPlay Video 
                 
  	             
  	              Kuchar and Woodland interview  
  	             After the final round of the OMEGA Mission Hills World Cup, Matt Kuchar and Gary Woodland talk about playing together as a team and what it means to b… 
  	             Posted Nov 27 2011 
  	             More:  Golf video  
  	             
  	                              
  	             
                
  	             PlayPlay Video 
                 
  	             
  	              Shot of the Day: November 27, 2011 from Mission Hills  
  	             In final-round play from the OMEGA Mission Hills World Cup, Robert-Jan Derksen holes his bunker shot on the par-5 6th hole for a birdie. 
  	             Posted Nov 27 2011 
  	             More:  Golf video  
  	             
  	             
             
             
               
                More Videos » 
               
             
           
        
        
        
         
  
 

         
  
 

  
       
     
   

   
     

 


     
   
    Sports  Home    Golf     
   
         
    
           YAHOO! SPORTS 
       
        NFL  
        MLB  
        NBA  
        NHL  
        Golf  
        NASCAR  
        Tennis  
         More Yahoo! Sports »   
       
       
        NCAA Football  
        NCAA Basketball  
        NCAA Women's Basketball  
        World Soccer  
        WNBA  
        MLS  
       
        
     
         
    
           ALSO ON YAHOO! 
       
        Autos  
        Finance  
        Games  
        Groups  
        Health  
        All Yahoo! »  
       
       
        Maps  
        Mail  
        Music  
        omg!  
        Shine  
       
       
        News  
        Shopping  
        Sports  
        Travel  
        TV  
       
        
     
         
    
           THINGS YOU CAN DO 
       
                Give Feedback  
                Get Scores on My Yahoo!  
          Play Fantasy Sports  
          Subscribe to RSS News Feeds  
          Citizen Sports  
          Buy Sports Merchandise  
       
        
     
       
   Yahoo! News Network    
        
     
       
               

         -  Site Map 
               
       Copyright © 2011  PGATOUR.com  / Turner Sports Interactive. All Rights Reserved.