Health On the Net (HON): A Decade Devoted to Improving Online Health Information Quality 
 
 


 
   
    
        
   
 
 
   
EN |
 FR  |
 DE  |
 
 



 
  
 
	  
	 
	 
	 
   
   
      
   
   
      
       
          
          
           
              About HON  
           
          
          
           
              
                 
                    
                    PATIENT / INDIVIDUAL  
                    
                    MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL  
                    
                    WEB PUBLISHER  
                    
                 
                 
                    
                 
              
           
           
               
           
          
         
          
   
  
   
      
   
  
 
   
     
     
       
       
       
		   
 		 
        
      
         
 
  
 
 
 
   	
      
 
 
                
             
             
                
              
                
               About the organization        Mission & users    
    Who we are    
    Accredited by HAS    
    NGO status    
    Awards & Recognition    
    HON History     
 
                
               Research & Development       In progress    
    Completed    
    Publications    
 
                
               International collaboration       French-speaking Africa    
    English-speaking Africa    
    Spanish-speaking 
                   countries    
    Arabic-speaking countries    
 
                
                      Media Corner    
    Collaborations    
    Helping HON and Funding    
    Jobs offers     
    Ethical policy    
    Contacts    
          
     	
     
       
       
          
            
             A Decade Devoted to Improving Online Health Information Quality 
               
           
         
       
       
     
     
     
     
     HON Foundation is a non-governmental organisation offering to Internet users reliable and trustworthy information through more than 5,000 accredited medical and health web sites according to the HON Code of Conduct (HONcode). 
	  
	   Shark cartilage to cure cancer! With four billion pages devoted to health information on the Internet, no wonder to find this kind of news. But there is a reliable mean to verify health and medical information: The Health On the Net Foundation (HON). HON officially went live in May 1996 under the impetus of Mr Guy-Olivier Segond, former Geneva State Councilor, and expert like Professor Jean-Raoul Scherrer, Dr Donald B. Lindberg, Mr Michel Carpentier, Professor Denis Hochstrasser, Professor Ron D. Appel  and Mr Jean-Claude Peterschmitt. HON is a non-for-profit and private Swiss foundation, supported by the Geneva Economic and Health Department, the European Union and collaborating closely with the Geneva University Hospitals (Prof. Antoine Geissb?hler, Head of the Medical Informatics Division, is HON?s President).

         
                 
        In 2002, HON was also granted the NGO consultative status by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, qualified for any questions related to the medical Internet and recognized as a public service "It is a structure which allows to guide citizens or medical professionals to reliable, relevant and up-to-date online health and medical information", explains Celia Boyer, Executive Director of the Health On the Net Foundation.

         
         
        With this intention, HON accredits web sites according to eight ethical principles, the HONcode, which requires from the publishers the following information: from which authority the information is coming from; what is the purpose of the site; the confidentiality policy; the origin of the sources used; the justification about benefits and performance of a specific treatment; the transparency of the authorship; the actualization of health data; the transparency of sponsorship as well as honesty in advertising and editorial policies. "The HONcode is de facto a standard of the reliability of online information. Its purpose is to protect all citizens from incorrect, indeed misleading medical and health information", specifies Celia Boyer. When surfing on HON?s site (www.healthonnet.org), each user can download a free "plug in" service integrated in the navigator, which automatically indicates if the visited page is part of an accredited site by HON.
         
         
         More than 5,000 accredited web sites 
         Today, the HONcode has already been adopted by nearly 5,000 sites, representing 72 countries, among many others MedlinePlus, Pubmed, Orphanet, etc. "We have been constantly progressing for ten years. Million of pages have already been accredited by HON covering all kind of diseases", says HON?s Executive Director, who is surrounded by a team of ten people, including three data processing specialists, two MDs, a surgeon, a pharmacist and a doctor in biology.
           
           
          Health On the Net Foundation developed telematics applications for patients and health professionals including search tools like HONselect, an encyclopaedia of 33,000 medical topics translated in five languages. HONselect also offers access to medical selected resources such as 12 million of scientific papers, 11,000 clinical trials in progress and more than 3,000 articles of recent news. 
         
         Collaboration with the European Union and others   
        
         HON is also very active in presenting its researches at an international academic level and collaborates in several projects of the European Union (WRAPIN project of automatic identification of the reliability of medical and health documents). HON works with  Google  to help annotate websites for health-related searches. These labels appear at the top of Google search results for relevant search queries. “Our strong expertise in this area gave us the opportunity to help make health information easier for people to find.” adds Celia Boyer. On a more regional level, the foundation created for citizens living in the French speaking part of Switzerland a catalogue of selected trustworthy health resources ( http://www.santeromande.ch/ ) offering reliable and quality information on a disease, on where to find an association, a health professional or a hospital, on current medical news, etc.
            
             
             
            And in the future? "To disseminate and make information of quality easily accessible  remains our priority (according to an American study led in July 2005, 74% of the Net surfers seek medical and health information). Thanks to our data-processing competences, we will continue to develop research tools easily accessible to citizens (assistance to how to ask questions, integrated spelling checker, multilingual platforms). We are also developing local centers of competences in Africa for quality and reliable content creation", answers Celia Boyer. 
                
        
               
         Translated by HON from ?Health on the Net se porte bien? by Giuseppe Costa, published in Pulsations by the Geneva University Hospital, freely distributed, edition of 30?000 copies.
         
           
     
     
     
     
 
 



 
 
 
  
   
     
     
      
       
          Home  
          
          About us  
          
          MediaCorner  
          
          HON newsletter  
          
          Site map  
          
          Ethical policies  
          
          Contact  
        
       
   
 
 

       
    
      
      /Global/event_art_pulsations.html  
      
      last modified:  Jun 29   2007
 
      
      ? copyright HON 2011