Health On the Net (HON): Copyright 
 
 

 
   
    
        
   
 
 
   
EN |
 FR  |
 DE  |
 SP  |
 CN  |
 
 



 
  
 
	  
	 
	 
	 
   
   
      
   
   
      
       
          
          
           
              About HON  
           
          
          
           
              
                 
                    
                    PATIENT / INDIVIDUAL  
                    
                    MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL  
                    
                    WEB PUBLISHER  
                    
                 
                 
                    
                 
              
           
           
               
           
          
         
          
   
  
   
      
   
  
 
   
     
     
       
       
       
		   
 		 
        
      
         Home  >  Copyright   
 
  
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
                
             
             
                
              
                
               About the organization        Mission & users    
    Who we are    
    Accredited by HAS    
    NGO status    
    Awards & Recognition    
    HON History     
 
                
               Research & Development       In progress    
    Completed    
    Publications    
 
                
               International collaboration       French-speaking Africa    
    English-speaking Africa    
    Spanish-speaking 
                   countries    
    Arabic-speaking countries    
 
                
                      Media Corner    
    Collaborations    
    Helping HON and Funding    
    Jobs offers     
   Ethical policy   
    Contacts    
          
     
     
	  
	
   
	 Legal information 
	  
	  
        The HON Foundation respects the HONcode charter that is developed for health and
medical websites.
 
         
		
		

		 
		   
 
 
    Here  you can access the trust case justifying the reliability and trustworthiness of  the services delivered by HON. The trust case provides an argument and refers  to the evidence supporting this argument.  (developped  by the Department of Software Engineering Gdansk University of Technology within the frame work of the  PIPS  EU project)   
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
 

		 
	


       The HONcode was  created as a response to the lack of a guarantee for the quality of information found  online. HON developed a Code of conduct (HONcode) based on eight essential  ethical, quality and accessibility principles. From discussions with webmasters  and editors of web sites, it was seen that such a code of conduct was required  and sought after by them, thus enabling them to provide quality information by  following a set of basic rules. 
         
        For more information  on our Code of conduct - the  HONcode  and how HON conforms to this code, please see below: 
                 
       
       
         
            HONcode    in brief    
         
       
       
   
   
      
       
         For more information on our  Code of conduct - the HONcode   and how HON conforms to this code, please see below: 
         
		  

		
		
		 
           
       
           
                 
      
      
      
       
         1. Authority 
      
      
      
 

          
          Confirmation of  compliance is seen on the following URL where a brief description of each staff  member has been given :  http://www.hon.ch/Global/HONTeamPhoto.html  
             
             All information of a medical nature  presented on our site  http://www.healthonnet.org  or  http://www.hon.ch/  are  selected and extracted from reliable Web sites by the HON team.  
              Although the contents of our site are  regularly checked and updated to ensure the reliability and relevance of the  information provided, the HON Foundation does not guarantee complete accuracy  of medical information provided and cannot be held responsible for any adverse  effect that may arise from the use of the contents of the site. 
               
           
             
         
        
         
         2. Complementarity 
      
      
        
      
       

         
           Purpose 
            All information  found on the site is intended to support and not to replace the existing  relations between you and your attending physician. 
            It is always  necessary to share any medical information which you may find on the Internet  with your attending physician or health professional. 
             
            Mission  
            The mission of  the site is to provide readers with access to health and medical information  which is known to be accurate and trustworthy. 
            It also provides information about Health On the Net Foundation and  the HONcode, it's initiative to standardize the quality of medical information  online. 
             
            Audience 
            Our site is intended for: 
           
             The general public including patients who       require information on their disease, family and friends of patients and       any person interested in knowing more about a specific disease or diseases       in general.  
             Health professionals including those who       would like to stay in touch with their subject by regularly reading new       material or those who require further knowledge on a specific subject. 
             
             Students including those in the field of       healthcare.  
             Website editors.  
               
                 
           
           
         
      
        
  
         
      
         3. Confidentiality 
      
      
      

       
         
          

           HON pledges always to  respect the privacy and anonymity of its users, including survey participants.  
            We only use cookies to improve navigation on our site. All services and tools offered on the site are available free  of charge without the need for registration. 
            Any personal information voluntarily provided  to us by our readers (names, email addresses or any other  contact information, personal or medical data) will be kept in the  strictest confidence. No information is shared with any third party. 
            HON is committed to working with the  internet community to maintain and reinforce the need for confidentiality  amongst their readers. 
            Only non-personal information about a  reader is gathered through the logs of our Web server. 
             
  We encourage you to always read the  confidentiality statement of any website you may visit. 
    
           The HONcode seal 
		   
		  Over the past 12 years, HON has grown immensely and currently, there are more than 7.300 HONcode certified websites.
     To maintain the quality standards of these and the growing list of HONcode websites, HON developed a new dynamic and
     active HONcode seal which allows the real-time status change according to the compliance of a website.  This seal shows the last
     date of reevaluation of the site and is automatically updated after every re-evaluation or annual audit.
    
     Information collected from this seal is non-personal such as your  Internet Protocol address, browser type, browser language etc
    which cannot be used to personally identify you. We do not sell, transmit, share or divulge this information to any third party and it is safely
    stored on the HON web servers used only by the HON collaborators and system manager to improve our services.

		   
		   
           
         
        
       
       
       
         4. Attribution 
      
      
      

       

         
           The information provided on our site is  always referenced and the origin always stated.  
            The date of last modification of each page  (date of last update) is indicated on every page.The results of our search engines are updated on a daily basis unless otherwise specified. Although the contents of our  site are regularly checked and updated to ensure the reliability and relevance  of the information provided, the HON Foundation does not guarantee complete  accuracy of medical information provided and cannot be held responsible for any  adverse effect that may arise from the use of the contents of the site. 
             
           
           
         
        
       
       
       
         5. Justification 
      
      
      

       

         
           Any information on the benefits or the  performance of a given treatment, product or commercial service, will be  accompanied by suitable and balanced evidence to confirm the statements made on  the site, in accordance with Principle 4. 
            HON does not promote any product or service  which you may find on sites accessed through our search engines and we  encourage you to share any medical information which you may find on the  Internet with your attending physician or health professional. 
             
         
           
         
        
       
       
       
         6. Professionalism 
      
      
      
      

       

         
         All contact details for the HON Foundation  have been provided on the page with the following URL: 
  http://www.hon.ch/Global/contact.html  
 
 
         
      
        
       
       
       
      
         7. Transparency of the financing 
      
      
      
      

       

         
           The Health On the Net Foundation is a  non-profit organization, which offers all its services free of charge. It thus relies  on the financing and sponsorship of external beneficiaries, details of which  can be found on the following page:  
             http://www.hon.ch/Global/sponsor.html  
   
         
           
         
        
       
       
       
         8. Advertising 
      
      
      
      

       

         This site does not accept or display any  advertising. However, we do promote selected events of  interest to the community which may be considered to be "friendly  links".  
         
        

       
       
         
         
             
            Other important items
			 
              9. Law governing this Website  
               The access and use of this site is subjected to the legislation of the Canton and State of Geneva. The users of this Website agree to submit themselves to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of the Canton and State of Geneva, Switzerland and to waive any jurisdictional rights to such courts.               
               
                10. Disclaimer 
               The content provided by  Health On the Net Foundation is for information purposes only and is in no way  intended to be a substitute for medical consultation with a qualified  professional. The Foundation encourages Internet users to be careful when using  medical information. If you are unsure about your medical condition, consult a  physician. Although we carefully review our content, Health On the Net  Foundation cannot guarantee nor take responsibility for the medical accuracy of  documents we publish, nor can HON assume any liability for the content of Web  sites linked to our site. To find out more about our efforts to improve the quality  of medical information on the Internet, visit our  Code of Conduct (HONcode) . 
                 
                Though HON guarantees  that all accredited sites will respect the HONcode during the period of  certification, it is however not responsible for the content of any HONcode  accredited site. 
                We urge you to apply  caution and to always consult with your attending physician before using any  online health information or advice.  
                
         
       
         
           
               
                             
                      11. Copyrights of HON  website 
			   All the information (including the design  and graphics of the Web site) contained on the  http://www.hon.ch/  site is  copyrighted © Health On the Net Foundation, and  is the property of the Foundation Health On the Net.  
  Material found on this site (information,  text and image) may be used or distributed for non-commercial purposes under  the condition that this note of Copyright remains intact in each document where  HON is stated as it’s source and a link to the HON website is provided. 
                 
                Please also send an email to:   webmaster@healthonnet.org  mentioning the use of the material of the site,   http://www.healthonnet.org . 
                 
                The contents of the site may not be used  for commercial purposes. 
                Any  information and images included in this site, obtained from other servers shall  remain the copyright of the managers of those servers and the authors of the  respective documents.  
               Any webmaster wanting  to display the  HONcode  logo or certificate on a newsletter or brochure, should  first submit the intended newsletter or brochure to HON. HON will then review  this and will or will not grant permission, as is seen fit, for HONcode  material to be used for international purposes 
  

               12. Copyrights of surveys   
               All the information (including the design and graphics of the Web site) contained on the  http://www.HealthOnNet.org/  site is copyrighted ? Health On the Net Foundation, and is the property of the Foundation Health On the Net (HON). Material found on this site (information, text and image) may be used or distributed for non-commercial purposes only under the condition that this note of Copyright remains intact in each document where HON is stated as the source and a link to the HON website is provided.  
               
               
                 
                    
                       
                          
                             The use, reproduction, or distribution of 
                              the material of the surveys conducted by HON (information, 
                              text, image) is subject to the following restrictions: 
                         
                             
                               request for use of any part of the surveys 
                                must be submitted to the HON at
                                 
                                .  
                               any copies or distribution must be accompanied 
                                by the following copyright notice. If in HTML, it must also 
                                feature the hypertext links as shown in this copyright notice:
                                  HON 
                                  Surveys 1995-2011 . ©  Health 
                                    On the Net Foundation. 
                                    
                       
                    
                 
               
                HON makes no warranties or representations, 
                either expressed or implied, with respect to the results contained herein, 
                nor to their quality, merchantability, performance or fitness for a particular 
                purpose. In no event shall HON or its developers, directors, officers, 
                employees or affiliates be liable for direct, incidental, indirect, special 
                or consequential damages (including damages or loss of business profits, 
                business interruption, loss of business information and the like) resulting 
                from any defect in this material or its documentation or arising out of 
                the use or inability to use this material or accompanying documentation 
                even if HON, an authorized representative or a HON affiliate has been 
                advised of the possibility of such damage. HON makes no representation 
                or warranty regarding the results obtainable through use of this material. 
                No oral or written information or advice given by HON, its dealers, distributors, 
                agents, affiliates, developers, directors, officers or employees shall 
                create a warranty or in any way increase the scope of this warranty.  
              
                All Rights reserved. Copyright 1995-2011 
               13. Copyrights of certification   
               The Health on the Net (HON) certificate   serves as a  guarantee that a website, at the date of its   certification, complies with  and pledges to honor the 8 principles of   the HON Code of Conduct as drawn up by  the HON foundation. 
               The responsible of the certified site   commits to keep  the site in compliance with the HON code principles for   the duration of the  certification. 
               Although measures such as a complaint   mechanism, the  annual review and the automatic surveillance mechanisms   are put in place to  guarantee the compliance of the certified website   with the ethical principles  of HON as much as possible, incidental   inaccuracies cannot be completely  excluded. In no event the HON   foundation and/or its partner(s) can be held  liable for any damages   resulting from the use or inability to use HON certified  websites nor   can the HON foundation and/or its partner(s) be held liable for  the   content of these certified websites, including, but not limited to the    information of third-parties or hyperlinks accessible via HON certified    websites. 
               The certified website is  responsible for the content of its website, unless otherwise provided by law. 
               14. Display of friend links   
               The display of friend links means that the Health on the Net (HON) participates to the mentioned conference or is involved in its organisation. 
              
           
         
       
      
            
            
       
	  
	
	 
   
 
 
 

 
  
   
     
     
      
       
          Home  
          
          About us  
          
          MediaCorner  
          
          HON newsletter  
          
          Site map  
          
          Ethical policies  
          
          Contact  
        
       
   
 
 

       
    
      
      /Global/copyright.html  
      
      last modified:  Aug  2   2011
 
      
      ? copyright HON 2011