Picking your brain facts - Sciensational 
 


 
 
  
  



  





 
 
 
 

 


 

  

 


 
  
   
      
       
          
                  
                     
         

   

 
   
     
     
     
     
     
   
 
  
 





        
         
             Sciensational.com/blog 
              Science 
              facts blog 
         
        
        
        
 
  
          
        
        
        
         
       
       
          
            Astronomy  
            Mathematics  
            Physics  
            Chemistry  
            Biology  
             Blog  

            
         
                     
         
      
   
   
      
       



 

 
   
     
    
                 
        	 
				  
                  
             
    
     
Animals... plants... stars... planets... numbers... chemicals... metals! The biggest... the smallest... the fastest... the highest... the lowest...! Not just science facts, Sciensational Facts! 
    
    
     
 
    
 

    Submit     

    Write  
       

    Find  
       

    Store  
       

    Books  
       

    Screen  
       

    Fun  
       

    Sites  
       

    About  
       

    

    

    

   Sciensible        

 
 
  
 
         

  

 
 
 

 



         
        
         
        
        
        
        
        
        
 


 


  

 

 
   
     



    
     
    

    
    
				
        
            
               
                 October 31st, 2007 
                
               
                
            
                
                
        
        
        

        

         
         Home  >  Blog  >
         
        
          
         Picking your brain facts         
        

        






        
        
         
           Where would we be without our brains, eh?  Let’s take a quick look at this wonderful organ. 
 Thanks to Sciensational reader Sidd posting on our  biology facts page , we know that 
 The number of neuron cells in our brain is more than the total number of stars in our galaxy.  
 That number is about 100 billion! What are neurons? Neurons are electrically charged little cells in  our brain to make use of all the information we get from our senses, like eyes, ears, touch, etc. Without them, we wouldn’t be able to make sense of anything at all! 
 The brain is divided into several parts for study, but for now, let’s take the three major parts of the brain: The Cerebrum, the Cerebellum, and the Brain Stem. 
 The Cerebrum, also called the forebrain, is responsible for our language, memory, movement and all. As you’re reading this and trying to understand it, you’re using your Cerebrum. 
 Next, we have the Cerebellum which controls how we understand or ‘perceive’ things through our senses. It is also responsible for our motor controls, which means using our bones and muscles.  You are enjoying reading this post while sitting comfortably, with your balance intact, right? That’s thanks to the Cerebellum! To understand the importance of Cerebellum, consider the fact that this brain part’s Latin name actually means “little brain.” 
 Then we have the lower part of the brain, The Brain Stem.  This is where our brain connects to our spinal cord.  What does it do? Well, there are many parts of our body that need to work without us being too worried about controlling them deliberately, like the heart pumping and our stomach digesting our food, etc.  That’s part of what the Brain Stem is good for! It really keeps our body under control! 
 Our brain uses quite a lot of energy that we have in our body.  In fact, Sciensational reader Anchal Srivastava from Gorakhpur,  India  sent us this brainy biology facts bit: 
 The normal energy used by our brain is 0.1 calories per minute, and could go up to 1.5 during activities such as puzzle-solving.  
 Since our brain is one of the most important organs, it has a king’s share of our body’s resources.  Consider the following brain fact: 
 While only 2% in weight, the human brain requires 15% of the body’s heart work, 20% of oxygen and 25% of all glucose.  
 How big is it? An average adult human brain weighs around 1300 grams or about 3 pounds. The appearance of the brain is pinkish, but if you looked at it closely, it would seem to contain both white and grey matter. The almost-white matter of the brain is the one that covers nerve fibres and is called myelin.  The nerve cells that remain uncovered make for the appearance of the famous ‘grey matter.’ 
 So let’s work our brains, nerves and grey matter for good!  
  
         
        

        

         
         
        
          	
        
           


        

        
        
        
        
        

 
 
  « Previous:  Warm and Sunny Facts    » Next:  100% Pure Honey Facts!    
 
  
 


        
        

    


 




    
     
     
    
     
    
 
    
    
    
    
    
    

 Previous posts  
 
	  Warm and Sunny Facts  
	  Picking your brain facts  
	  100% Pure Honey Facts!  
	  Some Diamond Facts are Forever!  
	  Some Prime Quality Facts!  
	  Over the Moon facts  
	  We all have some bones to pick  
	  Let’s Dig Some Gold Facts  
	  Relax, there’s no pressure now!  
	  We’re not going to finish this Pi  
 






 Get New Posts via Email 
 
 
 Enter your email address: 
  
   
  
 
 


 Copyrights and stuff  
 All written posts on this blog are copyright to Sciensational.com.  Any reproduction without permission is prohibited. Photos and images copyright to their  original owners and blogged in fair use. Original graphics and design © Sciensational.com. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy . 

 Disclaimer 
 The posts on the blog are an attempt to  loosely explain certain scientific fun facts and trivia. Please always consult an expert for accurate information regarding any subject. If you feel something here doesn't make sense at all, you can  contact us.   

      
   
 














  

  
         

       

     
 

     

  
   
    
    
       
   © Sciensational.com - The science facts website. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy .