Science Facts Blog - Sciensational 
 


 
 
  
  






  


 


 

  

 


 
  
   
      
       
          
                  
                     
         

   

 
   
     
     
     
     
     
   
 
  


 


        
         
             Sciensational.com/blog 
              Science 
              facts blog 
         
        
        
        
        
 
  
           
        
        
        
         
       
       
          
            Astronomy  
            Mathematics  
            Physics  
            Chemistry  
            Biology  
             Blog  

            
         
                     
         
      
   
   
      
       



        

 

 
   
     
    
                 
        	 
				  
                  
             
    
     
Animals... plants... stars... planets... numbers... chemicals... metals! The biggest... the smallest... the fastest... the highest... the lowest...! Not just science facts, Sciensational Facts! 
    
    
     
 
    
 

    Submit     

    Write  
       

    Find  
       

    Store  
       

    Books  
       

    Screen  
       

    Fun  
       

    Sites  
       

    About  
       

    

    

    

   Sciensible        


 
 
  
 
         

  

 
 
 

 



         
        
         
        
   
        
        
        
        
 


 


  

 

 
   
     



    
     
    
 




















    
    



				
        


                
            
                
                
        
        
        
        

          
         Warm and Sunny Facts 
         

       
        
        


        
        
         
          
		 The Sun is our nearest star in the universe. Nearest, however is a very relative term because the Sun is a whopping 93 million miles away from us. In fact Sciensational reader Demandude from Missouri, United States had this Astronomy fact for us: The sun is about 149 million kms (93 million miles) from earth, [...] 
         
         
        

        

        


        
          
             
             No comments              
              
         
        
        
        

    
    
    
       
        
        
     
          
      
        
        
        



    
    



				
        


                
            
                
                
        
        
        
        

          
         Picking your brain facts 
         

       
        
        


        
        
         
          
		 Where would we be without our brains, eh? Let’s take a quick look at this wonderful organ. Thanks to Sciensational reader Sidd posting on our biology facts page, we know that The number of neuron cells in our brain is more than the total number of stars in our galaxy. That number is about 100 [...] 
         
         
        

        

        


        
          
             
             No comments              
              
         
        
        
        

    
    
    
       
        
        
     
          
      
        
        
        



    
    



				
        


                
            
                
                
        
        
        
        

          
         100% Pure Honey Facts! 
         

       
        
        


        
        
         
          
		 Honey is one of the oldest food sources we know. This fascinating fluid is created by honey bees from the nectar of flowers. Let’s see what sciensational stuff we have for honey and the great honey bees.Thanks to sciensational reader Ashalaya from Racine in Wisconsin, USA, we found out a really interesting chemistry fact: Honey [...] 
         
         
        

        

        


        
          
             
             No comments              
              
         
        
        
        

    
    
    
       
        
        
     
          
      
        
        
        



    
    



				
        


                
            
                
                
        
        
        
        

          
         Some Diamond Facts are Forever! 
         

       
        
        


        
        
         
          
		 Diamonds are really the most fascinating gemstones in the world. They have adorned the crowns of kings and queens throughout our history. A diamond is considered the most precious of all gemstones, and is surely justified in this role.As often claimed by people selling them, Diamonds are indeed truly timeless, because they were created by [...] 
         
         
        

        

        


        
          
             
             No comments              
              
         
        
        
        

    
    
    
       
        
        
     
          
      
        
        
        



    
    



				
        


                
            
                
                
        
        
        
        

          
         Some Prime Quality Facts! 
         

       
        
        


        
        
         
          
		 Time for some prime facts roundup, or prime numbers round up to be arithmetically exact. Take the following sciensational mathematics fact: The largest prime number is 9,808,358 digits long; more than the number of atoms in the universe. The basics first. What is a prime number? It’s when a number can be divided only by [...] 
         
         
        

        

        


        
          
             
             No comments              
              
         
        
        
        

    
    
    
       
        
        
     
          
      
        
        
        




  


 
 
 Next Page »  
 







 


    
     
     
    
     
   
    
  Recent posts  

 
	  Warm and Sunny Facts  
	  Picking your brain facts  
	  100% Pure Honey Facts!  
	  Some Diamond Facts are Forever!  
	  Some Prime Quality Facts!  
	  Over the Moon facts  
	  We all have some bones to pick  
	  Let’s Dig Some Gold Facts  
	  Relax, there’s no pressure now!  
	  We’re not going to finish this Pi  
 


 
 Get New Posts via Email 
 
 
 Enter your email address: 
  
   
  
 
 


 Copyrights and stuff  
 All written posts on this blog are copyright to Sciensational.com.  Any reproduction without permission is prohibited. Photos and images copyright to their  original owners and blogged in fair use. Original graphics and design © Sciensational.com. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy . 

 Disclaimer 
 The posts on the blog are an attempt to  loosely explain certain scientific fun facts and trivia. Please always consult an expert for accurate information regarding any subject. If you feel something here doesn't make sense at all, you can  contact us.   


      
   
 














  

  
         

       

     
 

     

  
   
    
    
       
   © Sciensational.com - The science facts website. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy .