Astronomy Facts & Trivia  - Sciensational.com 
		 
        
            
        

 

 
  
  


 
 

 

 
 
                  


   

 
   
     
     
     
     
     
   
 
  

 


 





		   



        
         
             Sciensational.com 
              Science facts and  
              trivia for everyone! 
          
         
         

	        
     
         
          
          
         
	   
        
         
       
       
          
              Astronomy  
            Mathematics  
            Physics  
            Chemistry  
            Biology  
            Blog  

            
         
                     
         
      
   
   
      
       
         

 
   
     
    
 
       
                 
        	   
				  
                 
             
    

         
			  
         

    
    
    

 

Animals... plants... stars... planets... numbers... chemicals... metals! The biggest... the smallest... the fastest... the highest... the lowest...! Not just science facts, Sciensational Facts!

     
    
     
 
    
 

    Submit     

    Write  
       

    Find  
       

    Store  
       

    Books  
       

    Screen  
       

    Fun  
       

    Sites  
       

    About  
       

    

    

    

   Sciensible       

 
 
  
 
       

     

  
 
 

 

         


 





		

        



 



 

		  
 
  










 
 

 

  

 
 
 

 Astronomy Facts &ÊTrivia 
		
		 
		Proxima Centauri is the nearest star to us after the Sun. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Joshua - Canada 
		
		
		
		
		 
		The star Epsilon Aurigae dims every 27 years due to a mysterious dark object eclipsing it periodically. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Ddsqaw 
		
		
		
		
		 
		The 'Great Red Spot' - a storm on Jupiter that has been going on for 300 years - is so big that dozens of Earths would fit into it. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Steady - Malmš,  Sweden  
		
		
		
		
		 
		A supermassive blackhole is believed to be present in the centre of nearly every galaxy, including our own Milky Way. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Mansi Kookani - Dubai, United Arab Emirates 
		
		
		
		
		 
		On Mercury during the day, the sun rises, stops, about-turns and eventually sets where it rose. Submitted by:  Hyde - Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
		
		
		
		
		 
		 Everything moves: Planets move within the Solar System, which moves within Milky Way Galaxy, which moves within The Local Group of Galaxies, which moves towards Virgo Cluster. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Nathan Otoo - United States 
		
		
		
		
		 
		 Venus and Uranus are the only planets that rotate clockwise (retrograde rotation.) Submitted by:  Yvonna May  
		
		
		
		
		 
		 All 27 of Uranus moons are named after William Shakespeare and Alexander Pope characters. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Jacob Richard - Tempe, Arizona, United States 
		
		
		
		
		 
		 With 63 moons, Jupiter has the largest number of moons. Submitted by:  Moi - Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune are made up of just gas with no solid surface to land on. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Angel - United States 
		
		
		
		
		 
		The temperature on Mercury varies so extremely that it will rise up to 430C during the day and drop as low as -140C at night. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  King Sid - Hyderabad, India 
		
		
		
	 
     
	        
 

 	
         
        
		  
         	

        
		
		
		 
		The largest known star Canis Majoris is so big that if our Sun were a ball 117cm (46in) wide, Canis Majoris would be 2.25 kilometers (1.3 miles) wide. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Colin - Portland, Oregon, United States. 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Despite being closest to the sun, Mercury is not the hottest planet. The hottest planet is Venus (at 462 Celsius). Submitted by:  Erik Halenkamp - Naples,  Italy  
		
		
		
		
		 
		The Pistol Star is the most luminous star known - 10 million times the power of the Sun and as big as the size of Earth's entire orbit around the Sun. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Ankita, Manaal and Anisha - Dubai, United Arab Emirates. 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Mars is red because its soil is very rusty (iron oxide.) Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Ankita Lalwani - Dubai, United Arab Emirates. 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Crux is the smallest of modern constellations, with only 4 bright stars. Submitted by:  Chris Jimms 
		
		
		
		
		 
		The largest of modern constellations is Hydra. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Chris Jimms 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Earth is the only planet not named after a Roman or Greek god. Submitted by:  Jacob - Ohio, Unites States. 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Saturn's moon Titan has hundreds of times more oil and natural gas than all the known reserves on Earth. Sciensational.com  
		
		
		
		
		 
		Interstellar space is not complete vacuum: there are a few hydrogen atoms per cubic centimeter. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:   Sruthi R - Coimbatore, India 
		
		
		        


         
        
		  
         	





 
 
 





















    1     2     3     4     Next  >  
  
 













 

  
 









 

 
Tip: Use our Science Facts Search Engine to learn more about anything described in the facts:
 
 (e.g. diamond or prime number or snakes, etc.) 
 
   
     
     
     
     
     
   
 
  

 


  
  

 





 


 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  




 © 2011 Sciensational.com. All rights reserved.   Privacy Policy .