Warm and Sunny Facts - Sciensational 
 


 
 
  
  



  





 
 
 

 


 

  

 


 
  
   
      
       
          
                  
                     
         

   

 
   
     
     
     
     
     
   
 
  
 





        
         
             Sciensational.com/blog 
              Science 
              facts blog 
         
        
        
        
 
  
          
        
        
        
         
       
       
          
            Astronomy  
            Mathematics  
            Physics  
            Chemistry  
            Biology  
             Blog  

            
         
                     
         
      
   
   
      
       



 

 
   
     
    
                 
        	 
				  
                  
             
    
     
Animals... plants... stars... planets... numbers... chemicals... metals! The biggest... the smallest... the fastest... the highest... the lowest...! Not just science facts, Sciensational Facts! 
    
    
     
 
    
 

    Submit     

    Write  
       

    Find  
       

    Store  
       

    Books  
       

    Screen  
       

    Fun  
       

    Sites  
       

    About  
       

    

    

    

   Sciensible        

 
 
  
 
         

  

 
 
 

 



         
        
         
        
        
        
        
        
        
 


 


  

 

 
   
     



    
     
    

    
    
				
        
            
               
                 November 3rd, 2007 
                
               
                
            
                
                
        
        
        

        

         
         Home  >  Blog  >
         
        
          
         Warm and Sunny Facts         
        

        






        
        
         
           The Sun is our nearest star in the universe. Nearest, however is a very relative term because the Sun is a whopping 93 million miles away from us. In fact Sciensational reader Demandude from Missouri, United States had this  Astronomy fact  for us: 
  The sun is about 149 million kms (93 million miles) from earth, yet it’s 270,000 times closer than the next nearest star, which is 4.3 light years away.  
 That nearest star, the star that is closest to us after the Sun, is a faint star known as Proxima Centauri. This star, in fact, to our naked eye, is part of a group of stars called the Alpha Centauri, which appear to us a single star (a more detailed post on this later.) 
 Let’s see how big our Sun is then, shall we. Another sciensational astronomy fact tells us 
  The Sun contains over 99.8 percent of the total material (mass) in our solar system, while Jupiter contains most of the rest.  
 Now that’s cool (or hot?), but how do we know what this means in relation to our Earth?  Well, another astronomy fact comes to our rescue and helps us put things in perspective: 
  About 1000 Earths would fit inside Jupiter – and the Sun could hold about 1000 Jupiters.  
 How’s that for an idea of the cosmic magnitude, eh? To put it even more precisely, take another astronomy facts tidbit: 
  The Sun is 330,330 times larger than Earth.  
 That in essence means that one hundred Earths would have to be placed side by side to equal the width of the Sun! In terms of volume, the Sun could comfortably hold about one million Earths inside its sphere! 
 That takes care of the size.  How about the Sun’s age? It’s computed after various considerations to be about 4.57 billion years. This means it is much, much older and existed much, much before us modern humans have existed for only about 200,000 years or so. 
 Here’s another juicy fact: Just as planets travel around it, the Sun also travels around the Milky Way galaxy, with its entire family of planets! In fact, another astronomy fact reveals to us that 
  The Sun travels at a speed of 250km (155 miles) per second, but it still takes 230 million years for it to complete a single revolution of the galaxy.  
 And just as our Earth has its year when it finishes a revolution around the Sun, the Sun also has a year: a Cosmic Year.  What is it? Thanks again to our astronomy facts, we know that 
  A cosmic year is the amount of time it takes the Sun to revolve around the center of the Milky Way, about 230 million years.  
 Apart from giving us its heat, the Sun also dumps huge amounts of material as it burns.  Yup, consider the following fact: 
  Every second, the Sun pumps more than a million tons of material into the space through the solar wind (electrically charged particles.)  
 Although we are nowhere near the beginning of discussing our fascinating star, and will definitely continue to discuss more things Sunny, let us conclude this post by a humbling fact that despite its great magnitude to us Earth dwellers, the Sun is considered nothing but a dwarf star: just an average low luminosity star amongst the community of stars! 
  
         
        

        

         
         
        
          	
        
           


        

        
        
        
        
        

 
 
  » Next:  Picking your brain facts    
 
  
 


        
        

    


 




    
     
     
    
     
    
 
    
    
    
    
    
    

 Previous posts  
 
	  Warm and Sunny Facts  
	  Picking your brain facts  
	  100% Pure Honey Facts!  
	  Some Diamond Facts are Forever!  
	  Some Prime Quality Facts!  
	  Over the Moon facts  
	  We all have some bones to pick  
	  Let’s Dig Some Gold Facts  
	  Relax, there’s no pressure now!  
	  We’re not going to finish this Pi  
 






 Get New Posts via Email 
 
 
 Enter your email address: 
  
   
  
 
 


 Copyrights and stuff  
 All written posts on this blog are copyright to Sciensational.com.  Any reproduction without permission is prohibited. Photos and images copyright to their  original owners and blogged in fair use. Original graphics and design © Sciensational.com. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy . 

 Disclaimer 
 The posts on the blog are an attempt to  loosely explain certain scientific fun facts and trivia. Please always consult an expert for accurate information regarding any subject. If you feel something here doesn't make sense at all, you can  contact us.   

      
   
 














  

  
         

       

     
 

     

  
   
    
    
       
   © Sciensational.com - The science facts website. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy .