100% Pure Honey Facts! - Sciensational 
 


 
 
  
  



  





 
 
 
 

 


 

  

 


 
  
   
      
       
          
                  
                     
         

   

 
   
     
     
     
     
     
   
 
  
 





        
         
             Sciensational.com/blog 
              Science 
              facts blog 
         
        
        
        
 
  
          
        
        
        
         
       
       
          
            Astronomy  
            Mathematics  
            Physics  
            Chemistry  
            Biology  
             Blog  

            
         
                     
         
      
   
   
      
       



 

 
   
     
    
                 
        	 
				  
                  
             
    
     
Animals... plants... stars... planets... numbers... chemicals... metals! The biggest... the smallest... the fastest... the highest... the lowest...! Not just science facts, Sciensational Facts! 
    
    
     
 
    
 

    Submit     

    Write  
       

    Find  
       

    Store  
       

    Books  
       

    Screen  
       

    Fun  
       

    Sites  
       

    About  
       

    

    

    

   Sciensible        

 
 
  
 
         

  

 
 
 

 



         
        
         
        
        
        
        
        
        
 


 


  

 

 
   
     



    
     
    

    
    
				
        
            
               
                 October 3rd, 2007 
                
               
                
            
                
                
        
        
        

        

         
         Home  >  Blog  >
         
        
          
         100% Pure Honey Facts!         
        

        






        
        
         
           Honey is one of the oldest food sources we know. This fascinating fluid is created by honey bees from the nectar of flowers. Let’s see what sciensational stuff we have for honey and the great honey bees.  Thanks to sciensational reader Ashalaya from Racine in Wisconsin,  USA , we found out a really  interesting  chemistry fact : 
 Honey does not spoil.  
 This is perhaps one of the greatest properties of honey. You could place it anywhere for thousands of years and it will not spoil.  In fact, edible honey was found in ancient  Egyptian  Pharaoh King Tut’s tomb! 
 Honey contains large amounts of  fructose  and  glucose .  Naturally this makes it an ideal sweetener – much sweeter – almost 20 to 60 per cent more – than sugar itself! 
 You would think that such a sweet thing would be so bad for your health.  Not so at all! Honey does not have any fats or cholesterol. It does not contain any sodium either. You could actually live off a just-honey diet because it is considered to be the only kind of food that has all necessary substances to sustain a normal human life, though it would be quite boring to have nothing but honey, eh? 
 Let’s take a look at the wonderful source of honey – the fantastic creature called the Honey Bee.  Sciensational reader Jieian tells us an  amazing biology fact : 
 Honeybees have remained unchanged in form or structure for 20 million years.  
 Yup, now there’s one specie we could trust with almost anything that it does, couldn’t we? Surely they must know what they’re doing! And they’re not looking at retirement anytime soon either, because honey bees are not only one of the oldest species, they are also one of the most hardworking. 
 A honey bee could visit around 2000 flowers in a day, flying around 25 kilometers per hour!  That’s not all.  It would take about 2 million flowers for these little creatures to visit to make just half a kilogram of honey! Not only that, just one single honey bee colony can produce between 30 to 40 kilograms of honey in a year. Can anyone beat that? 
 So, let’s remember how much hard work goes into a single spoonful of honey that we so yummily use as part of our food. 
 Here’s a big Cheers to our friends, the honey bees!  
  
         
        

        

         
         
        
          	
        
           


        

        
        
        
        
        

 
 
  « Previous:  Picking your brain facts    » Next:  Some Diamond Facts are Forever!    
 
  
 


        
        

    


 




    
     
     
    
     
    
 
    
    
    
    
    
    

 Previous posts  
 
	  Warm and Sunny Facts  
	  Picking your brain facts  
	  100% Pure Honey Facts!  
	  Some Diamond Facts are Forever!  
	  Some Prime Quality Facts!  
	  Over the Moon facts  
	  We all have some bones to pick  
	  Let’s Dig Some Gold Facts  
	  Relax, there’s no pressure now!  
	  We’re not going to finish this Pi  
 






 Get New Posts via Email 
 
 
 Enter your email address: 
  
   
  
 
 


 Copyrights and stuff  
 All written posts on this blog are copyright to Sciensational.com.  Any reproduction without permission is prohibited. Photos and images copyright to their  original owners and blogged in fair use. Original graphics and design © Sciensational.com. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy . 

 Disclaimer 
 The posts on the blog are an attempt to  loosely explain certain scientific fun facts and trivia. Please always consult an expert for accurate information regarding any subject. If you feel something here doesn't make sense at all, you can  contact us.   

      
   
 














  

  
         

       

     
 

     

  
   
    
    
       
   © Sciensational.com - The science facts website. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy .