Some Prime Quality Facts! - Sciensational 
 


 
 
  
  



  





 
 
 
 

 


 

  

 


 
  
   
      
       
          
                  
                     
         

   

 
   
     
     
     
     
     
   
 
  
 





        
         
             Sciensational.com/blog 
              Science 
              facts blog 
         
        
        
        
 
  
          
        
        
        
         
       
       
          
            Astronomy  
            Mathematics  
            Physics  
            Chemistry  
            Biology  
             Blog  

            
         
                     
         
      
   
   
      
       



 

 
   
     
    
                 
        	 
				  
                  
             
    
     
Animals... plants... stars... planets... numbers... chemicals... metals! The biggest... the smallest... the fastest... the highest... the lowest...! Not just science facts, Sciensational Facts! 
    
    
     
 
    
 

    Submit     

    Write  
       

    Find  
       

    Store  
       

    Books  
       

    Screen  
       

    Fun  
       

    Sites  
       

    About  
       

    

    

    

   Sciensible        

 
 
  
 
         

  

 
 
 

 



         
        
         
        
        
        
        
        
        
 


 


  

 

 
   
     



    
     
    

    
    
				
        
            
               
                 September 21st, 2007 
                
               
                
            
                
                
        
        
        

        

         
         Home  >  Blog  >
         
        
          
         Some Prime Quality Facts!         
        

        






        
        
         
           Time for some prime facts roundup, or prime numbers round up to be arithmetically exact. Take the following sciensational  mathematics fact : 
 The largest prime number is 9,808,358 digits long; more than the number of atoms in the universe.  
 The basics first. What is a prime number? It’s when a number can be divided only by itself, with no remainder, and by the number 1.  You know, 1, 3, 5, 7, 11… The list literally goes on.  What makes discovering a new, long prime so sciensational? Well, you have to prove that a new big Prime Suspect number is indeed a prime, by doing the simple formula of “divided only by itself and 1?  which means showing the world that when divided by all the previous primes, you didn’t get a whole number as a remainder.  That’s quite a task to prove a prime number, but thanks to computers and all, we are discovering new, long primes frequently.  The largest prime above was confirmed to be a new big prime as late as September, 2006. 
 The fact above has another fascinating fact in itself: the number of atoms in the universe.  Though it is a discussion for a different post altogether, let’s just know that the number of atoms in the universe can be written in just 80 digits.  That makes our biggest prime find even greater. 
 Another sciensational maths fact says: 
 2 and 5 are the only primes that end in 2 or 5.    
 That is true for all decimal numbers for all known primes!  
  
         
        

        

         
         
        
          	
        
           


        

        
        
        
        
        

 
 
  « Previous:  Some Diamond Facts are Forever!    » Next:  Over the Moon facts    
 
  
 


        
        

    


 




    
     
     
    
     
    
 
    
    
    
    
    
    

 Previous posts  
 
	  Warm and Sunny Facts  
	  Picking your brain facts  
	  100% Pure Honey Facts!  
	  Some Diamond Facts are Forever!  
	  Some Prime Quality Facts!  
	  Over the Moon facts  
	  We all have some bones to pick  
	  Let’s Dig Some Gold Facts  
	  Relax, there’s no pressure now!  
	  We’re not going to finish this Pi  
 






 Get New Posts via Email 
 
 
 Enter your email address: 
  
   
  
 
 


 Copyrights and stuff  
 All written posts on this blog are copyright to Sciensational.com.  Any reproduction without permission is prohibited. Photos and images copyright to their  original owners and blogged in fair use. Original graphics and design © Sciensational.com. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy . 

 Disclaimer 
 The posts on the blog are an attempt to  loosely explain certain scientific fun facts and trivia. Please always consult an expert for accurate information regarding any subject. If you feel something here doesn't make sense at all, you can  contact us.   

      
   
 














  

  
         

       

     
 

     

  
   
    
    
       
   © Sciensational.com - The science facts website. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy .