Some Diamond Facts are Forever! - Sciensational 
 


 
 
  
  



  





 
 
 
 

 


 

  

 


 
  
   
      
       
          
                  
                     
         

   

 
   
     
     
     
     
     
   
 
  
 





        
         
             Sciensational.com/blog 
              Science 
              facts blog 
         
        
        
        
 
  
          
        
        
        
         
       
       
          
            Astronomy  
            Mathematics  
            Physics  
            Chemistry  
            Biology  
             Blog  

            
         
                     
         
      
   
   
      
       



 

 
   
     
    
                 
        	 
				  
                  
             
    
     
Animals... plants... stars... planets... numbers... chemicals... metals! The biggest... the smallest... the fastest... the highest... the lowest...! Not just science facts, Sciensational Facts! 
    
    
     
 
    
 

    Submit     

    Write  
       

    Find  
       

    Store  
       

    Books  
       

    Screen  
       

    Fun  
       

    Sites  
       

    About  
       

    

    

    

   Sciensible        

 
 
  
 
         

  

 
 
 

 



         
        
         
        
        
        
        
        
        
 


 


  

 

 
   
     



    
     
    

    
    
				
        
            
               
                 September 24th, 2007 
                
               
                
            
                
                
        
        
        

        

         
         Home  >  Blog  >
         
        
          
         Some Diamond Facts are Forever!         
        

        






        
        
         
           Diamonds are really the most fascinating gemstones in the world.  They have adorned the crowns of kings and queens throughout our history.  A diamond is considered the most precious of all gemstones, and is surely justified in this role.  As often claimed by people selling them, Diamonds are indeed truly timeless, because they were created by immense temperature and pressure billions of years ago, deep inside the earth and can indeed last and last.  As a matter of fact, diamonds have been carbon dated to be at least 3.4 billion years old.  Now that’s old enough to be called ‘ageless’, eh? 
 Let’s shine some light on a few diamond facts and take this first sciensational  physics fact  about diamonds: 
 Diamonds are the hardest known substance.  
 A diamond’s hardness has been known to be recognized since antiquity, and that’s probably why the name diamond itself comes from the ancient Greek word adamas, which means ‘invincible.’ 
 However, the fact about the hardness of diamonds is true only for all naturally occurring materials, because a structurally different form of carbon (an  allotrope ) called Aggregated Diamond Nanorods, is even harder than Diamond. But that should not take a single carat of credit away from the diamond at all, because it is still all pure, natural carbon.  So naturally carbon, in fact, that we have another sciensational fact dedicated to it: 
 Most gemstones contain several elements, except diamond which is all carbon.  
 Yup, that’s the popular crystalline gemstone shape and form of carbon we know as the great diamond. 
 There are, however, other less perfect forms of diamonds, too. These lesser diamonds are used mainly for industrial purposes.  One is called Bort, which is not a Star Trek alien but a dark crystal and is used mostly in drilling-bits for crushing other material.  Another imperfect diamond is a mass of many tiny diamonds called Ballas.  Then there is Carbonado, and no, it is not a fizzy energy soda drink.  Carbonado is sometimes referred to as ‘black diamond’ because it can be dark opaque or grayish in colour. 
 And you thought diamonds only looked good in glass cases!  
  
         
        

        

         
         
        
          	
        
           


        

        
        
        
        
        

 
 
  « Previous:  100% Pure Honey Facts!    » Next:  Some Prime Quality Facts!    
 
  
 


        
        

    


 




    
     
     
    
     
    
 
    
    
    
    
    
    

 Previous posts  
 
	  Warm and Sunny Facts  
	  Picking your brain facts  
	  100% Pure Honey Facts!  
	  Some Diamond Facts are Forever!  
	  Some Prime Quality Facts!  
	  Over the Moon facts  
	  We all have some bones to pick  
	  Let’s Dig Some Gold Facts  
	  Relax, there’s no pressure now!  
	  We’re not going to finish this Pi  
 






 Get New Posts via Email 
 
 
 Enter your email address: 
  
   
  
 
 


 Copyrights and stuff  
 All written posts on this blog are copyright to Sciensational.com.  Any reproduction without permission is prohibited. Photos and images copyright to their  original owners and blogged in fair use. Original graphics and design © Sciensational.com. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy . 

 Disclaimer 
 The posts on the blog are an attempt to  loosely explain certain scientific fun facts and trivia. Please always consult an expert for accurate information regarding any subject. If you feel something here doesn't make sense at all, you can  contact us.   

      
   
 














  

  
         

       

     
 

     

  
   
    
    
       
   © Sciensational.com - The science facts website. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy .