Chemistry Facts & Trivia  - Sciensational.com 
		 
        
            
        

 

 
  
  


 
 

 

 
 
                  


   

 
   
     
     
     
     
     
   
 
  

 


 





		   



        
         
             Sciensational.com 
              Science facts and  
              trivia for everyone! 
          
         
         

	        
     
         
          
          
         
	   
        
         
       
       
          
              Astronomy  
            Mathematics  
            Physics  
            Chemistry  
            Biology  
            Blog  

            
         
                     
         
      
   
   
      
       
         

 
   
     
    
 
       
                 
        	   
				  
                 
             
    

         
			  
         

    
    
    

 

Animals... plants... stars... planets... numbers... chemicals... metals! The biggest... the smallest... the fastest... the highest... the lowest...! Not just science facts, Sciensational Facts!

     
    
     
 
    
 

    Submit     

    Write  
       

    Find  
       

    Store  
       

    Books  
       

    Screen  
       

    Fun  
       

    Sites  
       

    About  
       

    

    

    

   Sciensible       

 
 
  
 
       

     

  
 
 

 

         


 





		

        



 



 

		  
 
  










 
 

 

  

 
 
 

 Chemistry Facts &ÊTrivia 
		
		 
		Graphite can be transformed into diamond by applying a temperature of 3000¡C and pressure of 100,000 atm. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Hyde - Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
		
		
		
		
		 
		The coldest state of matter Ñ Bose-Einstein Condensate superfluid Ñ defies gravity and instead of flowing down, it flows upward. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Moi - Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
		
		
		
		
		 
		The element Californium is often called the most expensive substance in the world (as much as $68 million for one gram.)
 Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Major Problem 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Aluminium is the most common metal in the Earth's crust (8 percent of its weight.) Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Moi - Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Unlike any other element, helium does not solidify. Submitted by:  Abhi - India 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Hot water freezes faster than cold water (the Mpemba effect.) Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Moi - Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Astatine is the rarest element on Earth (approx 28g in the Earth's entire crust.) Submitted by:  Shubhu - Rourkela, India 
		
		
		
		
		 
		The six states of matter are: Plasmas, Gases, Liquids, Solids, Bose-Einstein Condensates and Fermionic Condensates. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Adarsh - Jamshedpur, India & Amina Kunting - Antipolo, Philippines 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Chalk is made of trillions of microscopic skeleton fossils of plankton (a tiny sea creature.) Submitted by:  Sam - Los Angeles, California, United States 
		
		
		
		
		 
		A bucket full of water contains more atoms than there are bucketfuls of water in the Atlantic Ocean. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Megan H - United States 
		
		
		
		
		 
		A rubber tire is actually one single giant molecule. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Moi - Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
		
		
		
	 
     
	        
 

 	
         
        
		  
         	

        
		
		
		 
		Dynamite contains peanuts as an ingredient. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Manaal - Dubai, United Arab Emirates 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Talc is the softest known substance. Submitted by:  Laine - United States 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Gallium is a metal which melts on palm of the hand, due to its low melting point (29.76 ¡C). Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Karanpal Singh - Amritsar, India 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Twenty percent of Earth's oxygen is produced by the Amazon forest. Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Jassim - Salem, India 
		
		
		
		
		 
		The noble gas Xenon lasers can cut through materials that are so tough even diamond tipped blades will not cut.
 Submitted by:  Josh Davies - Llanelli, Wales 

 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Gold and Copper are the only two non-white metals. Sciensational.com  
		
		
		
		
		 
		The burning sensation we get from chilli peppers is because of a chemical called Capsaicin. Submitted by:  Cam - England. 
		
		
		
		
		 
		The lighter was invented before the match (in 1816 by J.W. Dobereiner). Sciensational.comSubmitted by:  Leah Hopson - Denver, United States 
		
		
		
		
		 
		Each time lightning strikes, some Ozone gas is produced, thus strengthening the Ozone Layer in the Earth's atmosphere. Sciensational.com  
		
		
		        


         
        
		  
         	





 
 
 





















    1     2     3     Next  >  
  
 













 

  
 









 

 
Tip: Use our Science Facts Search Engine to learn more about anything described in the facts:
 
 (e.g. diamond or prime number or snakes, etc.) 
 
   
     
     
     
     
     
   
 
  

 


  
  

 





 


 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  




 © 2011 Sciensational.com. All rights reserved.   Privacy Policy .