Over the Moon facts - Sciensational 
 


 
 
  
  



  





 
 
 
 

 


 

  

 


 
  
   
      
       
          
                  
                     
         

   

 
   
     
     
     
     
     
   
 
  
 





        
         
             Sciensational.com/blog 
              Science 
              facts blog 
         
        
        
        
 
  
          
        
        
        
         
       
       
          
            Astronomy  
            Mathematics  
            Physics  
            Chemistry  
            Biology  
             Blog  

            
         
                     
         
      
   
   
      
       



 

 
   
     
    
                 
        	 
				  
                  
             
    
     
Animals... plants... stars... planets... numbers... chemicals... metals! The biggest... the smallest... the fastest... the highest... the lowest...! Not just science facts, Sciensational Facts! 
    
    
     
 
    
 

    Submit     

    Write  
       

    Find  
       

    Store  
       

    Books  
       

    Screen  
       

    Fun  
       

    Sites  
       

    About  
       

    

    

    

   Sciensible        

 
 
  
 
         

  

 
 
 

 



         
        
         
        
        
        
        
        
        
 


 


  

 

 
   
     



    
     
    

    
    
				
        
            
               
                 September 14th, 2007 
                
               
                
            
                
                
        
        
        

        

         
         Home  >  Blog  >
         
        
          
         Over the Moon facts         
        

        






        
        
         
           The moon is our nearest universal neighbour.  Some say the Moon does not deserve to be called just a satellite of the Earth at all, and should be paid more respect as a minor or sub-planet because it is the fifth largest moon in our entire solar system. 
 
So, how big is the moon? It’s about 1/50th the volume of the Earth and has a diameter of 3,474 km (see a previous post to get more ideas about diameters and stuff!). So in terms of overall size, this is what our  astronomy science facts  says: 
  The moon is 27% the size of the Earth.  
  
 Let’s look at the moon. The surface of the moon looks dark and bright, doesn’t it.  The darker areas on the moon are called Maria. Nope, they’re not named after Maria Sharapova but it is the plural for mare, meaning sea – though there are no seas there at all.  The brighter moon areas, however, are rather unimaginatively known as Lunar Highlands.  The moon has no water or any wetlands, of course.  In fact, another sciensational  astronomy fact  tells us that: 
  The moon is one million times drier than the Gobi Desert.  
 Since the Moon is a huge body in space, and also because it is so close to our planet, it can have direct affect on the Earth, simply because it’s there! For example, take this fact: 
  There is a high and low tide because of our moon and the Sun.  
 That is because the Moon has great gravitational pull and it tries to pull the water out of our oceans whenever it is right above it! Though it only succeeds in creating great waves, that’s it.  One of the reasons why Moon has such direct affects on the Earth is also because it is quite big for being a moon to a planet.  In fact, so big that it makes another  crazy science fact  for us: 
  The Earth-Moon size ratio is the largest in our solar system, excepting Pluto-Charon.  
 We’ve got a great planet! And a great moon to match! 
  
         
        

        

         
         
        
          	
        
           


        

        
        
        
        
        

 
 
  « Previous:  Some Prime Quality Facts!    » Next:  We all have some bones to pick    
 
  
 


        
        

    


 




    
     
     
    
     
    
 
    
    
    
    
    
    

 Previous posts  
 
	  Warm and Sunny Facts  
	  Picking your brain facts  
	  100% Pure Honey Facts!  
	  Some Diamond Facts are Forever!  
	  Some Prime Quality Facts!  
	  Over the Moon facts  
	  We all have some bones to pick  
	  Let’s Dig Some Gold Facts  
	  Relax, there’s no pressure now!  
	  We’re not going to finish this Pi  
 






 Get New Posts via Email 
 
 
 Enter your email address: 
  
   
  
 
 


 Copyrights and stuff  
 All written posts on this blog are copyright to Sciensational.com.  Any reproduction without permission is prohibited. Photos and images copyright to their  original owners and blogged in fair use. Original graphics and design © Sciensational.com. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy . 

 Disclaimer 
 The posts on the blog are an attempt to  loosely explain certain scientific fun facts and trivia. Please always consult an expert for accurate information regarding any subject. If you feel something here doesn't make sense at all, you can  contact us.   

      
   
 














  

  
         

       

     
 

     

  
   
    
    
       
   © Sciensational.com - The science facts website. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy .