Golfers on Golf Radio - WJJG AM1530 
  
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Home    Contact Us    Sponsors and Friends of the Show    News Blog    Listen to Past Shows    Listen LIVE to WJJG      
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Golfers on Golf Radio Chicago
 
 
 
                The Golfers on Golf Radio Show is talk radio for golfers.  We cover the "world of golf" with a local focus.  LIVE Radio Broadcasts in Chicago                   Golfers on Golf Radio is "on break" for the winter.  We return to the air with LIVE broadcasts in the summer golf season.   Follow our News Blog all year long!   Perfect your drive home! During the golf season, "Golfers on Golf" airs LIVE on Mondays from 6PM to 7PM on 1530AM. Or, you can catch the "podcast" on your computer anytime!  If you missed any of our live broadcasts,  click here  to replay the show on your computer!               Broadcasts and News                       Your hosts are Ed Stevenson, Bill Berger, Mike Munro, and Rory Spears.  Join the guys weekly for:   Talk from the tours (PGA, LPGA, Champions Tour, etc)  News from the Chicagoland golf community  Features including the Illinois Junior Golf Association (IJGA) "Spotlight"  Interviews with personalities and news makers from throughout the world of golf  Listener calls, FUN, and much more!   Questions? Comments? Want to talk with Bill, Mike, Rory and Ed? Call us LIVE during the show on the WJJG studio line at (708) 493-1530.    
  
  
 
 
 
            Subpages (2):

 
                      
                          Contact Us
                        
                     


 
                      
                          Sponsors and Friends of the Show
                        
                     

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 _displayNameOrEmail_ - _time_ -  Remove  
 _text_ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 About Golfers on Golf Radio 
 
 Golfers on Golf is a talk radio show created by golfers for golfers, broadcast live in Chicago. We cover the major tours, including the PGA Tour, but Golfers on Golf's true focus is local golf news in the Chicago area, Illinois, and greater Midwest. Features include live interviews with individuals and personalities from throughout the world of golf. 
 
 
 
 Gog Blog 
 
      Get golf news between the broadcasts with the Golfers on Golf Blog.  
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
  
 

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
     WJJG is "Chicago's Hometown Radio Station."       Golfers on Golf Radio      
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Sign in 
                     | 
                  
                
                
                 Terms 
                 | 
                 Report Abuse 
                 | 
                
                     Print page 
                     | 
                  
                
              
            Powered by  Google Sites