Golf is Hard TV | The golf show for the rest of us! 
 
 

 
 
 
    
  
  
 
  
 
 
	  
 
 
 
	 
		 
					  Golf is Hard TV  
			The golf show for the rest of us!
		 
		 
 
	 
	 
 
 	 
 
 
	 
	 
	  Home  
	  About  
  Free Downloads  
  Partnerships  
 
	 
 
 
	 
					 
			  2011-0918  
			  First round of… 2011?  
			  Add a Comment [Author:  admin  Category:  Rounds  ] 
			 
							 I finally got a chance to get out and play a round this year. Incredible and astounding I know. My daughter and I played 9 holes in a father/daughter tournament. I believe we may have finished dead last. The theme of the day was Lady Gaga’s “Edge of Glory” – each shot was preceded by me saying “on the edge” and trying to be as positive at Tony Robbins. It didn’t work, but we had a blast. 
       
 PS… Golf is Hard TV website is OBVIOUSLY back online! 
  
    
							 
			 Tags:  rounds  		 
				 
			  2011-0322  
			  How many rounds in 2011?  
			  Add a Comment [Author:  admin  Category: Uncategorized ] 
			 
							 Let’s do a poll… 
      
  View This Poll  
  
    
							 
					 
				 
			  2011-0322  
			  Snow in April  
			  Add a Comment [Author:  admin  Category: Uncategorized ] 
			 
							 Is it really snowing in April? Really? We’re going to have a real problem here Mother Nature! It’s time to pick up the clubs and swing, but I’ve filled my head with the inner workings of the baseball swing in coaching fastpitch softball… it’s going to be a rough season of golf! 
  
    
							 
					 
				 
			  2011-0123  
			  The Greatest Golfer Ever  
			  Add a Comment [Author:  admin  Category: Uncategorized ] 
			 
							    
  
    
							 
					 
				 
			  2010-1113  
			  Pathetic and Sad  
			  Add a Comment [Author:  Kinsswops  Category: Uncategorized ] 
			 
							 This hasn’t been the greatest golf season either personally or for Golf is Hard TV! 
 Let’s start with the personal golf side… I played less than 10 rounds this year, the highlight being a 9-hole round with my daughter. I managed to play 2 great courses while on vacation in Myrtle Beach, but outside of that, I made little to no progress on my game and in fact, probably took a big step backwards. I’ve invested a huge amount of time in coaching travel softball, which is eating up most and all of my free time. 
 As for Golf is Hard TV, clearly we’ve slacked on doing new shows this past year. Whether that’s a function of burning out from season 1, lack of good ideas or again, simply no time, I’m unsure. Coach (err, Chef) Dave has been busy over at  Life is Hard TV  most of this year, but we both desperately want to rekindle the momentum we had with the golf show at some point in the future. When.. we don’t know! 
 If you are still out there, how was the 2010 golf season for you? 
  
    
							 
					 
				 
			  2010-0522  
			  GolfisHardTV vs. LifeisHardTV  
			  Add a Comment [Author:  exentricr  Category: Uncategorized ] 
			 
							 What is the first thing you usually do when you get off the golf course? Although your options are many, chances are they include grabbing a bite and/or a beverage at the 19th hole, or heading home to finish off your latest home improvement project. Perhaps you need to stop by the wine shop to pick up something nice for your dinner guests? Or maybe you believe that although you just spent 5 hours on the golf course, you didn’t get much real exercise, so you’re off for a workout. Whatever you typically do after a round, be sure to check out www.lifeishardtv.com first. With close to 40 video posts to date, and many more to come, chances are we talking about something in which you are interested. 
 Let’s take a look at what both GIHTV and LIHTV have to offer: 
 GolfisHardTV                                LifeisHardTV 
 golf instruction                                  wine education 
 golf humor                                           laughs with Larry 
 free entertainment                           free entertainment 
 keep your game in shape               keep your body in shape 
 ask questions about golf                ask questions about anything 
 see new equipment                          cool home projects 
 online golf pros                                 online wine experts 
 online golf pros                                 online personal trainer 
 online golf pros                                 online pro contractors 
 online golf pros                                 online chef wannabe 
                                                                  (real chefs coming) 
 share with friends                            share with friends 
 You are starting to get the picture…check out LIHTV, we have a ton of stuff going on and much, much more to come. We are will be expanding soon into areas such as travel, gardening, music and hobbies. If you are passionate about something and wish to post a guest blog within a category, please give us a shout, we will be glad to consider posting your stuff. Hit ‘em well. 
  
    
							 
					 
				 
			  2010-0502  
			  Golf is Hard TV #87 – How To Fade/Draw Your Golf Ball  
			  1 Comment [Author:  exentricr  Category: Uncategorized ] 
			 
							  
 This is a really simple explanation of how to either fade or draw your ball. Try this out, shape your shots as needed on the course. If you have any questions, please submit a comment and we will be glad top help. Thanks Ron for your help, nice work. Have fun out there. 
  
    
							 
					 
				 
			  2010-0425  
			  Golf is Hard TV #86 – Golf Workout  
			  Add a Comment [Author:  admin  Category:  Season 2  ] 
			 
							      
 In this episode, John from  http://www.getupandgofit.com  takes Marc through a basic but effective workout for golf. Only on Golf is Hard TV! 
  
    
							 
			 Tags:  Season 2  		 
				 
			  2010-0418  
			  Golf is Hard TV#85 – Equipment Review: Drivers, Fairway Woods & Hybrids  
			  Add a Comment [Author:  exentricr  Category:  Season 2  ] 
			 
							        
 Ron Nihoff shows off his incredible golf swing and he also previews 2010 models from the “big 3?, Nike, Ping and Callaway. Check out their latest in drivers, fairway woods (metals) and hybrids. If you are local to Tashua Knolls, Trumbull CT, then you won’t want to miss Nike Demo Day on Friday, April 30th from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. You can meet Ron and some of the Nike reps, try out all the latest equipment. Mention Golf is Hard TV and Ron will give you the special member’s discount. Enjoy the episode, and be sure to watch until the very end for a surprise appearance from a special guest! Have fun, now go practice! 
  
    
							 
			 Tags:  Season 2  		 
				 
			  2010-0417  
			  Golf is Hard TV #84 – Warming Up For Golf  
			  1 Comment [Author:  admin  Category: Uncategorized ] 
			 
							      
 John from  Get Up and Go Fit (www.getupandgofit.com)  outlines his warm ups: 
 
 Single leg swing 
 Arm circles 
 Overhead reach 
 Torso rotation 
 Torso chest stretch 
 Squatting lat stretch 
 Rear delts 
 Quad stretch 
 Glute stretch 
 
 It should take less than 5 minutes and you will be ready for golf! 
  
    
							 
					 
				 
					  
			  Next Entries »  
				 
		 
		 
		 
			 
				 Category 
				 
					  Blogroll 
	 
  Life is Hard TV  

	 
 
  sponsored links 
	 
  personalized golf balls  
  promotional golf umbrellas  

	 
 
				 
			 
		 
		 
  Categories 		 
	  Rounds 
 
	  Season 1 
 
	  Season 2 
 
		 
 		 
		 
		 		 Recent Posts 		 
				  First round of… 2011?  
				  How many rounds in 2011?  
				  Snow in April  
				  The Greatest Golfer Ever  
				  Pathetic and Sad  
				 
		   Recent Comments    Delbert Simunovich  on  Golf is Hard TV Season 2 Kick Off #72    casino en ligne  on  Golf is Hard TV #83 – Sunday Scramble Masters Style    Emma  on  Golf is Hard TV #83 – Sunday Scramble Masters Style    Marketing Boston  on  Golf is Hard TV #83 – Sunday Scramble Masters Style    Pewter Keychain  on  Golf is Hard TV – Episode 29 – Chipping Visualization    		 
	  
 
	 Copyright © All Rights Reserved · Green Hope Theme by  Sivan & schiy  · Proudly powered by   WordPress  
 


			      search engine optimization