UniServe Science - The University of Sydney 

   
	
	
	 
	
	
	 
 
 
 
   
     
       
          The University of Sydney  UniServe Science 
        
		 
			 
			 
			 
			 
         
         
          
            Uniserve Science  
            University Home  
            Contacts  
         
        
       
      
       
        
         
           
             UniServe Science 
             
               
                  About us  
                  Our staff  
                  Contact us  
                  Archives  
               
             
             Supporting Tertiary Science and Mathematics Teaching 
             
               
                  UniServe Science Conference  
                  Staff Development  
                  Educational Research  
                  Projects  
                  Publications  
                  Upcoming Conferences  
                  Resources  
               
             
             Supporting NSW Schools 
             
               
                  General Information  
                  Professional Development  
                  Years K-6  
                  Years 7-10  
                  Years 11-12  
               
             
           
         
        
        
        
         
           
           
           
         
        
        
        
         
           Annual conference 
           IISME 
           Stage 6 
           Stage 4-5 
           Stage 1-3 
           AMPS 
          
         
        
        
        
         
           
             UniServe Science 
             UniServe Science was originally set up in 1994 with some Federal Government funding as a clearinghouse for information about new technologies in tertiary science teaching. Since that time it has changed its focus and currently it is funded by The University of Sydney through the Faculty of Science. 
		 UniServe Science has recently become an integral part of the newly formed  Institute for Science and Mathematics Innovation (IISME)  at the University of Sydney and our principal activities are now focussed on enhancing science and mathematics teaching in NSW Schools and the broader community. 
            
             The various sections of our website contain information about, and links to resources for a wide range of topics across the science disciplines suitable for staff teaching from kindergarten through to tertiary level. 
             This is a dynamic website and information is constantly being updated and amended so please check back regularly. We welcome feedback and contributions from educators as we continue to expand our community and endeavours. 
             UniServe Science  publishes and distributes a regular e-newsletter to interested teachers and members of the public. Please  register to subscribe  to the e-newsletter. 
           
         
        
        
       
      
      
      
       
         
           © 2002-2011 The University of Sydney. Last Updated: 08-Sep-2010 
           ABN: 15 211 513 464. CRICOS Number: 00026A. Phone: +61 2 9351 2222.  
           Authorised by: Manager, Uniserve Science 
            Contact the University  |  Disclaimer  |  Privacy  |  Accessibility  
  		  
         
           Sitemap 
           
              About us  
              Contact us  
              Educational Research  
            
              Publications  
              Schools Information  
              Years K-6  
              Years 7-10  
              Years 11-12