The ChemCollective 
 

 


 



  
  


 
	 
	    
	  
	     
	    

	 
 

 
 

 About 
  About Us  
  View Contributors  
  News  
  Papers and Publications  

 Instructors 
  Intro for Instructors  
  Find Activities  
  Online Stoichiometry Course  
  Comment About Your Experience  
  Share Classroom Data  
  Modify or Create Activities  

 Students 
  Intro for Students  
  Find your Instructor's Website  
  Chemistry Tutorials  
  Run Virtual Lab  
  Explore a Murder Mystery  
  Try Other Activities  

 Help 
  Getting Started and FAQ  
  Documentation  

 Links  
  Related Projects  

   

 

 
  The Chemistry Collective 

 The Chemistry Collective is a collection of virtual labs, scenario-based 
learning activities, and concepts tests which can be incorporated into a variety 
of teaching approaches as pre-labs, alternatives to textbook homework, and 
in-class activities for individuals or teams.  
It is organized by a group of faculty and staff at Carnegie Mellon 
University for college and high school teachers 
who are interested in using, assessing, and/or creating engaging online activities 
for chemistry education. 
 

  Highlighted Resource:  
	 Central Ideas In Molecular Science - CIMS Project     
   In collaboration with Kent State and MIT, we are developing particulate-level simulations
   of chemical systems for use in chemistry, biology, materials science, and physics courses. 
   A sample of these is now available, and we are looking for instructors interested in trying 
   these and similar simulations in their classrooms. 

	
  How to participate 
 
   Find activities  for use in your courses now 
   Comment  on activities and how your students responded 
   Modify or create activities  to fit particular teaching/learning goals 
   Submit activities and websites  created for your courses 
   Discuss  issues in improving teaching and learning in chemistry 
 

 Sponsors  

 The ChemCollective is funded by the 
 National Science Foundation  

through the Course, Curriculum and Laboratory Improvement program 
and the National Science Digital Library. 


 
 




  Invitation to Instructors  

       We are currently seeking instructors to test a new tool 
		which logs and visually summarizes student actions in the virtual lab.  
		If you use the Virtual Lab in your classroom and are willing to 
		help evaluate this tool, please email Ofra Amir

			(     ) for more details. 
         

  

  Recent News  	
 In July we exhibited at this year’s  ChemEd2011  conference at Western Michigan 
University in Kalamazoo, Michigan.  We also presented a workshop on classroom uses 
   for the ChemCollective materials. 






 In December 2010, we presented our collaborative molecular visualization work, 
    "Visualization in Chemical Education" 
	at the  PacifiChem 2010  conference, in Honolulu, Hawaii.  
	
 In August 2010, we presented our new approach to teaching equilibrium and acid/base chemistry 
    in a talk, " Making 
	the implicit explicit in acid-base instruction " at the 
	2010 ACS Fall National Meeting  in Boston, Ma. 
	

 Also in August 2010, we presented 2 papers, "Learning about student cognition by logging interactions
    with online activities" and "Recurring patterns: A cross-disciplinary approach to the big 
    ideas of molecular science" at the  2010 BCCE  at the 
    University of North Texas in Denton, Texas. 

   
	

  more.. 



  







 
 
 

   Contact Us 

 

 

   Page Last Updated: 09.01.2011