Osmosis Reverse Osmosis and Osmotic Pressure what they are 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
         
     
   

 
 Osmosis Reverse Osmosis and Osmotic Pressure what they are   
  Uri Lachish, guma science  
  
 What is  osmosis ? It 
is the phenomenon of water flow through a semi-permeable membrane that blocks 
the transport of salts or other solutes through it. Osmosis is a fundamental 
effect in all biological systems. It is applied to water purification and 
desalination, waste material treatment, and many other chemical and biochemical 
laboratory and industrial processes. 
 When two water (or other solvent) volumes are separated by a semi-permeable 
membrane, water will flow from the volume of low solute concentration, to the volume 
of high solute concentration. The flow may be stopped, or even reversed by 
applying external pressure on the volume of higher concentration. In such a case 
the phenomenon is called reverse osmosis. 
 If there are solute molecules only in one volume of the system, then the 
pressure on it, that stops the flow, is called the osmotic pressure. 
 The thermal movement of a solute molecule within a solvent is over damped by the 
solvent molecules that surround it. The solute movement is wholly 
determined by fluctuations of thermal collisions with nearby solvent molecules. 
However, the average thermal velocity of the solute molecule is the same had it been 
free in a gas phase, without nearby solvent molecules [1 - 3]. 
 Whenever a solute movement is blocked by the membrane it will transfer momentum to 
it and, therefore, generate pressure on it [2 - 3]. Since the velocity is the same as 
that of a free molecule, the pressure will be the same as the pressure of an 
ideal gas of the same molecular concentration. Hence, the osmotic pressure ¹,
 is given by  van't Hoff  
formula  [4] ,  
which is identical to the pressure formula of an ideal gas: 
 
 ¹ = cRT 
 where c is the molar concentration of the solute, R = 0.082 
(liter?bar) / (deg?mol), is the gas constant, and T is the 
temperature on the absolute temperature scale (Kelvin). 

  van't Hoff  received the
first Nobel prize in chemistry, in 1901, for his interpretation of osmosis. 

 For example, water that contains 33 gram / liter of  sodium chloride (NaCl), typical of seawater,
has an  ionic concentration  of  c = 1.128 
mol / liter. Inserting the values into the van't Hoff formula, for the ambient temperature T = 300 K, yields the osmotic 
pressure: 
 ¹ = 1.128 ? 0.082 ? 300 = 27.8 bar 
 or, 27.8 kilogram per square centimeter. 

  The osmotic pressure does not depend on the solute type, or its molecular size, 
but only on its molar concentration, as the formula states.
 
  
 Figure-1 shows connected vessels separated by a semi-permeable membrane. If 
there is only water in the device, the level will be the same at both arms. 
When solute molecules are added to one arm, water will start to flow into it, 
so that its level will go up at this arm, and down at the other arm. The 
system will stabilize when the osmotic pressure is balanced by the hydrostatic 
pressure generated by the difference h in the water levels. 
 
 cRT = ?h  
 where ? is the water specific gravity. (? = gd, where d is 
the water density and g is the gravity acceleration).
 The conservation laws of energy and momentum require that whenever particles 
collide with a moving wall, they will change direction and increase or decrease 
their speed. Thus, they transfer both momentum and energy to the wall. 
Therefore, the process of elastic collisions with a moving wall is the 
mechanism by which the microscopic kinetic energy of the particles is 
transformed into macroscopic mechanical work [1]. 
 The conservation law of momentum requires that solute molecules, that generate osmotic pressure 
on the semi-permeable membrane, must generate, via the volume of the solution, the same osmotic pressure
 on all the solution boundaries, including its free surface. In this respect the osmotic pressure acts according 
to  Pascal law . 
 During water flow through the membrane, 
the osmotic pressure, that operates also on the moving free surface of the solution, will push it 
upward. Thus the pressure on the free surface is responsible to water pumping from the water arm to the solution arm. 
This discussion of the flow mechanism usually does not appear in textbooks 
that deal with osmosis. The effect of the osmotic pressure on the free surface 
of the solution was first suggested by Hulett in 1902 [5], but received little 
attention. It seems to have only few proponents since then [6 - 15]. 
 Osmosis is a reversible thermodynamic process. That is, the direction of 
water flow through the membrane can be reversed at any moment by proper control 
of the external pressure on the solution. Contrary to that, mixing a teaspoon 
full of sugar in a cup of tea is an irreversible thermodynamic process of sugar diffusion within water. 
There is no way to reverse the process at any given moment and un-mix 
the sugar back to the spoon. 
  Reversibility is a fundamental idea of thermodynamics. 
Osmosis is a reversible process, while sugar diffusion in water  is not.  
Diffusion is an irreversible process.  

 In order to produce drinking water from seawater, by reverse osmosis, the pressure p of the salty water should be increased
above the osmotic pressure, so that clean water will cross the semi-permeable membrane and 
accumulate at its other side. Production of drinking water from a volume V of seawater 
requires a minimal input of energy E given by: 

 
E = p?V / 36 
 
 
 for E in kWatt hours, p in bars, and V in 
cubic meters.

  
If the pressure p is lower than the osmotic pressure, then clean water will flow 
back through the membrane toward the salty water. 
It is possible, by this process, to produce energy from "mixing" clean water with salty water via the membrane.

 It is not possible to produce drinking water from seawater, in any process, without energy input.
Had it been possible, then clean water would be produced without energy input, then it would be "mixed" back, 
via a semi-permeable membrane to produce energy, and then the process would be repeated again and again.
This is a "perpetuum mobile" that produces net energy from nothing, that is clearly not possible. 

 The minimum energy required to produce drinking water from salty water is calculated by putting the osmotic 
pressure ¹ into the formula. 
For the pressure calculated above the energy is:

 E = 27.8 ? 1 / 36 = 0.77 (kWatt hour) / (cubic meter) =  0.66 kcal / liter 

 Compare that to 1 kcal required to raise the water temperature of one liter by one degree Celsius, 
and to 540 kcal required to boil one liter of water.   
 What do the greatest people of science think on osmosis?   
"We must assume that the suspended particles perform an irregular movement - even if a very slow 
one - in the liquid, on account of the molecular movement of the liquid; if they are 
prevented from leaving the volume V* by the partition, they will exert a pressure 
on the partition just like molecules in solution." 
 - Albert Einstein [2].  

"Then the pressure on the side of the membrane facing the solution will be increased by the 
impacts against it of the molecules of the dissolved substances,"  
- Enrico Fermi [3]. 

 See:  
Why the osmotic pressure of a solution is equal to a gas pressure of the same particle concentration? 

  More on Osmosis   
  Energy of Seawater Desalination   
 Osmosis and Thermodynamics   
 van't Hoff's Evidence   

 References: 
 
   F.W. Sears and G.L. Salinger, "Thermodynamics, Kinetic Theory and 
  statistical Thermodynamics", 3rd Ed., 16 th  printing, Addison 
  Wesley, Reading Massachusetts (1986) pp. 250-266  
        A. Einstein, " On 
        the Motion of Small Particles Suspended in Liquids at Rest
       Required by the Molecular-Kinetic Theory of Heat ", 
       Originally published in Annalen der Physik 17 [1905]: 549-560 
       A. Einstein, " Investigations 
       on the Theory of the Brownian Movement ", 
       translated by A.D. Cowper, Dover Publications, Inc., New York,  pp. 1-18 (1956) 
   E. Fermi, "Thermodynamics", Dover Publications, Inc., New York (1937) pp. 
  118-123  
 J.H. van't Hoff, 
"Die Rolle osmotischen Drucks in der Analogie zwischen Losungen und Gasen",
        Zeitschrift fur physikalische Chemie, vol 1, pp. 481-508 (1887)   
        J.H. van't Hoff, " The Function of Osmotic Pressure 
        in the Analogy between Solutions and Gases ",  translated by W. 
        Ramsay, Philosophical Magazine, S. 5. vol 26. No. 159. Aug, pp. 81-105 (1888)   
        J.H. van't Hoff, " The Role of Osmotic Pressure 
        in the Analogy between Solutions and Gases ",  
        in: The Modern Theory of  Solution, Memoirs by Pfeffer, van't Hoff, Arrhenius, and Raoult,   
        translated and edited by Harry C. Jones, Harper & Brothers Publishers, New York and London,  pp. 11-42 (1899)   
   G.A. Hulett, Acta. Phys. Chem. 42, 353 (1902)  
   K.F. Herzfeld, Phys. Z. 38, 58 (1937)  
   K.J. Mysels and S.C. Copeland, "Introduction to the Science of Chemistry", 
  Ginn and Co., Boston (1952) p. 127  
   K.J. Mysels, "Introduction to Colloid Chemistry", Interscience, New york 
  (1959) Ch. VI  
   P.F. Scholander, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 55, 1407 (1966) 
   P.F. Scholander, Microvasc. Res., 3, 215 (1971)  
   H.T. Hammel and P.F. Scholander, "Osmosis and Tensile Solvent", Springer, 
  New York (1976)  
   H.T. Hammel, Science, 192, 748 (1976)  
   K.J. Mysels, J. Chem. Ed., 55, 21 (1978)  
   U. Lachish, J. Chem. Ed., 55, 369 (1978)  
   K.J. Mysels, J. Phys. Chem. B, 101, 1893 (1997), and references 
  therein.   
 On the net: February, revised, October, 1998. References added, October, 
1999.  
 

 Like this page? Show it to a 
Friend.  

 By the author: 
 
   "Light Scattering",   
  http://urila.tripod.com/scatter.htm , August (2011).  
   "The Sun and the Moon a Riddle in the Sky",   
  http://urila.tripod.com/moon.htm , July (2011).  
   "Osmosis and thermodynamics",   
  American Journal of Physics , Vol  75 (11), pp. 997-998, November (2007).  
  "van't Hoff's Evidence",  http://urila.tripod.com/evidence.htm , October (2007).     
   "Osmosis and Thermodynamics",  http://urila.tripod.com/osmotic.htm , 
  January (2007).  
   "Expansion of an ideal gas",  http://urila.tripod.com/expand.htm , December (2002). 
  "Optimizing the Efficiency of Reverse Osmosis Seawater Desalination",  http://urila.tripod.com/Seawater.htm , May (2002).  
   "Boltzmann Transport Equation",  http://urila.tripod.com/Boltzmann.htm ,   May (2002).  
  "Energy of Seawater Desalination",  http://urila.tripod.com/desalination.htm , April (2000).  
  "Avogadro's number atomic and molecular weight", 
  http://urila.tripod.com/mole.htm , April (2000).   
  "Vapor Pressure, Boiling and Freezing Temperatures of a Solution",  http://urila.tripod.com/colligative.htm , December (1998).  
  "Osmosis Reverse Osmosis and Osmotic Pressure what they are",  http://urila.21.googlepages.com/osmosis.htm , February (1998). 
  "Calculation of linear coefficients in irreversible processes by kinetic arguments", 
   
 American Journal of Physics , Vol  46 (11), pp. 1163-1164, November (1978).  
  "Derivation of some basic properties of ideal gases and solutions from processes of elastic collisions",   
 Journal of  Chemical Education , Vol 55 (6), pp. 369-371, June (1978).  
  

 Links: 
 
   Thermodynamics Research Laboratory,  
  http://www.uic.edu/~mansoori/Thermodynamics.Educational.Sites_html   
   Thermodynamik - Warmelehre,  
  http://www.schulphysik.de/thermodyn.html   
   The Blind Men and the Elephant    
  My Spin on Lunacy,  
  http://www.optics.arizona.edu/Palmer/moon/lunacy.htm     
   Five Weeks in a Balloon  
    The first man I saw   
    "Faster, Faster!"   
   Perfection can't be rushed  
    The man higher up   
    Brains    
    The First-Class Passenger   
   other