Chemistry lessons, Chemistry courses, Chemistry classes and Chemistry exams specifically for homeschool science that anyone an learn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 Principles of Alchemy (Chemistry) 
   
  Overview  
  
  The Syllabus  
  
  Sample of the Hypertextbook  
  
  How to Buy  (just $40)  
  
  Frequently Asked Questions  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
   Overview   
  	
  
   
 "Principles of Alchemy (Chemistry)" is a self-paced, self-learning program specifically designed to teach Chemistry on your computer.  
 &QUOT;Alchemy&QUOT; is for everyone and the lessons are specifically designed with the needs
of home schoolers in mind. Alchemy is NOT a series
of "simulation" programs that provide only a brief
explanation of the science. Nor does Alchemy abandon the student
with a dry science book that s/he is expected to wade through. 
 
Merlin started teaching Chemistry over the Internet in 1996. At first, he and his students relied heavily on email and IRC for  communications and clarification in the early development of the course. From that feedback, Merlin learned where students had the most difficulty and rewrote or added new material to the hypertextbook to make the lessons better. Now, many years later, Principles of Alchemy has evolved into a complete self-learning Chemistry course, tried and tested by students of a variety of ages and backgrounds.
   
 
Principles of Alchemy (Chemistry) is a &QUOT;hypertextbook&QUOT; - a computerized book written in hypertext code (the language of the web). That means it is &QUOT;platform independent&QUOT; (works on PCs and Macs) and can be read using any web browser. However, unlike webpages, you are NOT online while enjoying this course because you read it from your hard disk.
 The course is divided into four sections, each with a computer graded exam. After completing all four sections the student takes the final exam and, once successfully completed, will  receive a Diploma! In total there are 5 exams with 100 questions.
 If you still are not sure your Internet browser can read Merlin's hypertext, try  the sample  provided - Merlin has placed the entire section of AIR on the web for you to enjoy. Don't forget to check out the  exam .
 
 
 

   
 CompuHigh , providing an online accredited high school diploma program and courses since 1994, uses Principles of Alchemy (Chemistry). 
 
The California Learning Resource Network (CLRN) has determined that Principles of Alchemy (Chemistry) meets the CLRN review criteria and is now included on the  CLRN web site .
  
   
 This course has earned a 5 star rating, the highest rating, in the Schoolzone web guide- the UK?s largest, independent education web site.
   
 
  What students and parents are saying about Principles of Alchemy  
 

Hello from E's mom.  I just wanted to thank you
myself for the course.  E is 16 and in her third
year of high school -- sort of, anyway.  I've been trying to make educational
opportunities available to her at home.  Taking your
course has given her something concrete to do, and
... has made her feel successful (a
dear thing these days). I'm very grateful to you.  
 Again, many thanks.

 E's mom (and E)
 

My son was an Alchemy student of yours about 4 or 5 years ago 
(your typical homeschool geeky kind of kid :). A couple of weeks 
ago he started his freshman year at a university to study 
engineering. One of his required courses is chemistry. We spoke 
on the phone today and he told me several times that your 
Alchemy class was the best preparation for anything related to 
chemistry... He knows he has a leg up and that he will have a much easier time 
later when everybody else is struggling to understand.  Also, he 
sincerely thanked me for having him do your class!  Music to a 
mom's ear when the child not only admits Mom was right, but 
thanks her too :)
 You are providing a wonderful service.  Thanks and blessings to 
you.

 A homeschooling mom in Washington who purchased Principles 
of Alchemy in March 2000
 

I wanted to tell you how much i enjoyed your course. I never thought I would like chemistry, let alone
Love it!! I can't believe how much sense everything made! Being a home-schooler can be hard at times
because you have to teach yourself, and try to find life in what you're reading- -with your course, i could just
sit back and enjoy![and understand]
 thank you so MUCH!!!
 indebted to you always,

 Gretchen {a 10th grader in home-school}
 

My son is truly loving the chemistry course!  It appeals
to him in so many ways.  He likes the Q&A for it tests
his memory so well; he likes the depth of the course
content (&QUOT;Mom, it includes quantum mechanics!&QUOT;); he
likes anything with a pace he can adjust to his
preference.  You're offering a fine service here.  Thank
you so much.  
 Sincerely, 

 Kristin
 

It is a big hit with my 13 year old
daughter--imagine her, a week *before* our homeschool
officially starts up again, opening it and reading a
section every day!  She really enjoys it, and is
learning a lot.
 Sincerely,

 Mark
 
Moms and dads can be great teachers but they might want a wizard to teach Alchemy!
 
  How Merlin Teaches Alchemy  
Each chapter (called an "Ancient Element") contains lessons
presented in dialogue style. The purpose of this style is to break
away from the dry textbooks that seem to have become a standard
for Science education. 
   
  
Like reading a script, the student "listens
in" on (actually, reads) the conversation between Merlin and his student, Arthur.
The back and forth nature of dialogue means concepts can be explained
in a natural manner. Nothing really new here. Socrates started
it!
   
   
Merlin explains something and Arthur asks questions about it - often
the questions that immediately come to mind. Arthur makes common
mistakes and Merlin corrects him. Problem solving is easily demonstrated
and common errors in thinking are identified. A dialogue unfolds
in which Chemistry is learned. 
  

   
Lessons conclude with Arthur's Notes - a compilation of the salient features discussed
in the dialogue. 
 Then the student is challenged with Merlin's questions that hyperlink to detailed answers. Some of these Q's &AMP; A's encourage the student to recall important concepts discussed in the lessons and notes. However, most Q's &AMP; A's are designed to challenge the student to learn more! They take over where the dialogue ended, introducing more advanced ideas and drawing the student further into the subject. Merlin's Q's &AMP; A's are NOT really self-assessment; they are more self-learning.
 Each Ancient Element concludes with some simple, optional home experiments to try. 
 After completing an Element, the student takes a computerized exam. These multiple choice questions provide immediate feedback, are grade by the computer and, once successfully completed, give the student a Certificate of Completion that can be printed out. After  successfully completing the Final Exam the student is given a Diploma and the title of &QUOT;Apprentice Alchemist&QUOT;.
 
The student should  try the sample  to see if s/he is comfortable
with this style. 
 (Alchemy text has a reading level of around 8th grade.)
 
  
  The &QUOT;Principles of Alchemy&QUOT; Syllabus  
 
This is a general foundation course, teaching the basics of Chemistry. Principles of Alchemy covers more than half the material taught in a full year university-level Freshman Chemistry BUT it is taught in such a way that an average 13 year old could learn from it and enjoy it. That's because it is specifically designed as a &QUOT;low-math&QUOT; course to teach as much Chemistry as possible without resorting to logarithms, algebra or complex equations. No advanced math skills are expected, so it's suitable for everyone. Principles of Alchemy was developed to meet the needs and curiosity of those who do not want (and perhaps are frightened by) advanced math. However, this is NOT a watered down version of Science. Indeed, some topics are from second year (Sophomore level) university Chemistry!
 
Click here for a pdf file of the  syllabus , or how  Principles of Alchemy correlates with the  US National Science Education Standards , or  where to find topics  (using the California Learning Resource Network as an example) in the hypertextbook, or  all of these .
 Topics covered:
    
AIR (Atoms)
 Atoms and atomic structure. Mass and Daltons. Isotopes, radioactivity and half-life. 
 Nuclear chemistry and nuclear synthesis. 
 Electron shells and orbitals (mostly s and p orbitals, the d and f orbitals are covered in EARTH). 
 The Bohr atom. Quantum mechanics.
  
   
    
  
WATER (Molecules)
 Molecular formulas and molecular mass. Lewis structures. 
 Strong bonds - ionic, covalent and metal. Weak &QUOT;bonds&QUOT; - polar(ized), hydrogen and van Der Waals. 
 Hydrophobic and hydrophilic forces. The states of matter. Solutions, condensation, evaporation and distillation. 
 Molecular shapes - electrostatics, molecular orbitals, hybrid orbitals and VSEPR theory. 
 Allotopes. Crystals. Amorphic and devitrified structures. Gels.
   
    
EARTH (Elements)
 The Periodic Table - its trends, uses and concepts 
 (including atomic size, ionization energies, electron affinity and electronegativity). 
 A &QUOT;tour&QUOT; highlights the traits, similarities and differences among the common elements. 
 More shells and orbitals.
  

   
    
  
FIRE (Chemical Reactions)
 Breaking and making bonds. Exothermic and endothermic. Combination, decomposition and replacement reactions. Standard conditions. Energy diagrams and reaction paths. Catalysts. Valency. Oxidation and reduction.  Balancing equations. Rates and equilibriums. Entropy and enthalpy. Thermodynamics, Hess's Law, Le Chatelier's principle and Gibbs energy. Dissociation and ionization in water.  Enthalpy of formation. 
 &QUOT;Special reactions&QUOT; like combustion, electrolysis, photosynthesis, and respiration.
   
 
Many other topics are covered in less detail. For example, the graduate will gain an understanding of the fundamentals of pH but not to the depths required for calculating it (because that requires logarithms). Another example is Gibbs energy - the student will learn how changes in Gibbs energy determine the direction of a reaction but s/he will not see the Gibbs energy equation.
 As needed and where relevant, the student will learn a wee bit of Biology, Physics and Geology too!
 Students hoping to make a "hard copy" of the hypertextbook
will be disappointed because most printers cannot properly print these
kinds of documents. Besides, at hundreds of pages, it's a waste
of trees. And Merlin loves trees!
   
  
  
 
 

&QUOT;The best thing for being sad&QUOT;, replied Merlin, beginning to puff and blow, &QUOT;is to learn something. That is the only thing that never fails. You may grow old and trembling in your anatomies, you may lie awake at night listening to the disorder of your veins, you may miss your only love, you may see the world about you devastated by evil lunatics, or know your honour trampled in the sewers of baser minds.
 There is only one thing for it then - to learn.&QUOT;
 T.H. White, The Once and Future King, 1939
 
  
 
   
How to Get a copy of Principles of Alchemy   
 
You can download a copy of Principles of Alchemy on your computer for only $40 or get a  CD sent to you  for only $45 (plus shipping).
   
  
  
 
 
If you chose to download your hypertextbook, instructions will be emailed to you explaining how to collect it. 
 The entire hypertextbook has 173 files but, by bundling them into a single package, Merlin can get them to you over the Internet in just one download (1.6Mb). To collect your hypertextbook via the Internet all you need is a web browser, an email address, and the ability to unzip. Most folks already have unzipping packages. If you do not have one, you can find them on the internet by just &QUOT;goggling&QUOT; around. (Merlin uses Winzip but you can use others such as 7-Zip for PCs. Mac users like StuffIt Expander.)  
   
   
If you are not sure about the technology, download the  Sample Principles of Alchemy (Chemistry)  and give it a try. This way you can test your ability to handle the download as well as see how the course runs on your computer. 
 Note: this course is an HTML web-program, not an "app". This course will not run from an iPhone or other "smart" phone. It only runs from your computer's hard drive.
     
    
  
   
Through PayPal
 (the company that handles the transaction), 
 it's safe and easy to order a hypertextbook using your credit card.
  
 PayPal
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
  
   
 
 
PayPal will send you two separate emails - one email will be your receipt and the other email will be your instructions explaining how to download your copy of the hypertextbook.
 It is extremely important that you enter your email address correctly into PayPal's form. Your receipt and download instructions will be sent to that address and it is only through that address that Merlin can contact you.
 Your receipt will come from a PayPal address (paypal.com) but your download instructions will have this domain (synapses.co.uk) in the "From" field, even though it is actually sent by PayPal! Unfortunately, some spam filters smell a skunk when the real sender (paypal.com) uses another name (synapses.co.uk). So if you receive your receipt but your download instructions are not delivered, check your spam or trash box. If your spam filter allows you to input "Friends", add paypal.com and synapses.co.uk to it.	
   
 
  
Or you can buy the CD! 
   
 
  
   
 
  
Merlin has been offering Principles of Alchemy as a download since 1996 but many students have asked for a CD or disk instead. Until recently, that was too difficult for Merlin to do. Burning high-quality CDs and sending them around the world is a complicated business. 
 That;s why Merlin has recently chosen TrepStar as the sole distributor of Merlin's courses on CDs!
 
It costs five dollars more to receive this professionally mastered CD in its Jewel Case. Plus you pay for shipping.
 Like the course, the CD can be used on any platform (PCs, Macs, etc), you can tranfers it onto your hard drive and are allowed to make a make up copy.
 
So, if you are not comfortable about downloading and unzipping, and are willing to pay a little more for the convenience and assurance of owning something physical, then 
leap over to TrepStar and buy the  Principles of Alchemy on CD  for only $45 (plus shipping). TrepStar uses PayPal and also accepts credit cards.
   
 
Traditional schools (non-home-schools) require a group license and will probably need to work with Purchase Orders, etc so you will need
 a quote .
 
People who buy the course might also be interested in the  Principles of Alchemy Workbook , described below.
 
  About the Principles of Alchemy Workbook  
   
The   Principles of Alchemy Workbook , includes Arthur's Notes and Merlin's Questions and is used with the hypertextbook - not as a substitute for it.  There is nothing in the Workbook not found in the hypertextbook, but students and parents asked for this book because it helps the student to become more immersed in the course. It's nice to have a book to uses as a reference and to encourage careful studies. Merlin agrees. 
 The Workbook is intended to be used by the student to review information presented in the course and in which the student writes answers to the 186 questions. The answers are not in the Workbook. They are found in the hypertextbook!
 
This large format (8.5'' by 11''), 155 page Workbook has wire-O binding for ease of use. To keep costs under control, illustrations are monochromatic and black is reversed to white. Each question is followed by plenty of room for the student's answer.
 
The   Principles of Alchemy Workbook  is ordered via Cafepress and costs only $16.98 (plus shipping and handling).
  
  
   
 

If you have any questions please  email Merlin .
 
You won't find a better chemistry class on the Internet.
  Principles of Alchemy (Chemistry) 
   
  
   Sample of the Hypertextbook   
  
   Frequently Asked Questions   
 
  
 
   
  
        
 
 

  
  
      
 Free Hit Counter