Erik's Chemistry: Organic, General, AP and Physical Chemistry Notes 
 
 

 

  

 

 
  



  


  
  

  
  
 
     
     
    	
      
         
          
         
     
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 


 

 
	 
	 
	
		Erik's Chemistry
	
	 
	 
 

 
	 
	
 
	 
		  
		  Chemistry Links  
		  
		  Chemistry Images  
		  
		  Chemistry Animations  
		  
		  Chemistry Humor  
		  
	 
 
	
	 
 

 

 

 
	 
	 

	

	 AP CHEMISTRY NOTES: 
	 
	

	 ?Periodic Table  

	Intro to Chemistry 
	 ?AP Chemistry: Basic Knowledge  
	 ?Significant Digit Rules  
	 ?Metric Prefixes  
	 ?Chemical Formulas and Equations  
	 ?Chapter 1: Matter and Measurements Review  
	 ?Atoms, Molecules, and Ions  

	Stoichiometry 
	 ?Chapter 3: Stoichiometry Notes  
	 ?Chemical Reactions: Prediction of Products  

	Gas Laws 
	 ?Chapter 5: Gas Laws  
	 ?Pressure Notes  
	 ?Chapter 6: Kinetic Theory of Gases  

	Thermochemistry 
	 ?Thermochemistry  

	Quantum Theory 
	 ?Basic Knowledge to Build the Quantum Theory  
	 ?Chapter 7: Electronic Structure of Atoms  

	Solution Chemistry 
	 ?The Common Solution  
	 ?Rules for Net Ionic Equations  
	 ?Solubility Rules  
	 ?Solutions  

	Periodic Table 

	 ?Historical Development of the Periodic Table  
	 ?The Periodic Table  
	 ?Nuclear Physics: An Introduction  
	 ?Nuclear Chemistry  	
	 ?Nuclear Physics  

	Chemical Bonding 
	 ?Introduction to Chemical Bonding  
	 ?Chapter 8: Chemical Bonding  
	 ?Bond Angle Table  
	 ?Expanded Octets  
	 ?Covalent Bonding Orbitals  

	Liquids and Solids 
	 ?Liquids and Solids  
	 ?Phases  

	Introduction to Organic Chemistry 
	 ?Introduction to Organic Chemistry  

	
	 

	 
	 
	
	 About The Site 
	
	 
	Erik's Chemistry is a collection of Chemistry, AP Chemistry, and Organic Chemistry notes, available for people to read through, review and learn with. New sections will be added as I finish making them.  This site is maintained by  Erik Epp .  Erik's Chemistry is best viewed at 800x600 or greater.
	 
	 Erik's Chemistry News 
	 
	 
	 
		 
		Dec 23, 2002
		 
	 
	 
		 
		*GASP* An Update! -  As time passes, it seems less and less likely that this site will be revived for new content.  I'm now at the University of Chicago, in the Ph.D. program in chemistry.  My time is now occupied mainly with my classes, teaching classes, and research; there's not much left over.  In any case, the site will remain, in its present form, as long as tripod is willing to host it for free.  There's one new link that I've added this update, for ChemSketch, a program for drawing chemical structures.
		  
		 Erik 
		 
	 
	 
		 
		Jan 26, 2002
		 
	 
	 
		 
		*GASP* An Update! -  Over a year since the last update, my how the time flies.  There is not really anything new to report, but I am in the process of switching over to a new design and template, which should make it easier for me to manage.  
		  
		 Erik 
		 
	 
	 
		 
		Nov 17, 2000 11:50 p.m. EST
		 
	 
	 
		 
		Busy, Busy, Busy! -  Well, another update, finally.  I guess that this is the price I pay for being so busy.  This semester I'm taking two chemistry labs, 4 and 8 hours per week.  In addition to that I am working on two separate research projects and working part-time.  Its somewhat suprising that I made it this far.
		  
		An Update! -  I don't know what direction I will be taking with this website.  I have more and more demands on my time, but would still like to add to this website.  I think it will be a neverending work-in-progress.  We'll see.
		  
		Advice - Just some musings of mine (chemistry related, of course).  If you have a chance to take a true, scientific writing class, do so, it is worth the time.  Take math classes beyond what is required; linear algebra is extremely useful in physical chemistry, as are related course on group theory.  Actively participate in research; labs can teach you a lot, but working with faculty on directed research can teach you far more.  Talk to your professors, they're just waiting for people to stop by office hours.  Ask questions, even if you don't 'need' to know it for the exam, knowledge and understanding can only help.
		  
		 Erik 
		 
	 
	 

	 News Archive  

 
 
	 
	Any comments will be appreciated.  Please e-mail me at  eepp@altavista.net 
	 
 
 
	 
	Visits since August 27, 1998:   
 
 LE FastCounter  

	 
	 
		 
		Statistics since December 13, 1998
		 
		 
		  
		 
	 
	 
		 
		Statistics since January 1, 1999
		 
		 

     
     
     
     
     

		 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
	 
	  
	 
 
 
		 
		URL:  http://eppe.tripod.com/index.htm  
This page was made by  Erik Epp .
	 
 
 

	 

	 
	 

	

	 ORGANIC CHEMISTRY NOTES:
	 
	 

	

	Nomenclature 
	 ?Organic Nomenclature Table  
	 ?Alkane Names  
	 ?IUPAC Common Names Still In Use  

	Chemical Bonding 
	 ?Bond Angle Table  
	 ?Element Bond Table  
	
	Properties of Organic Compounds 
	 ?Boiling Points of Alkanes  
	 ?Acidity of Organic Acids  
	
	Chemical Reaction Mechanisms 
	 ?Diels-Alder Reaction  
	 ?Halogenation of Benzene  
	 ?Friedel-Crafts Alkylation  
	 ?Friedel-Crafts Acylation  
	
	 
	   PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY NOTES: 
	 
	Chem 260: Chemical Principles 
	 ?Chemical Bonding Terms  
	
	 ?States of Matter and Properties of Gases Terms  
	
	 ?First Law of Thermodynamics Terms  
	
	 
	Chem 302: Inorganic Chemistry: Principles of Structure, Reactivity, and Function 
	 ?Review Sheet 2  
	
	 ?HOMO and LUMO  
	
	 
 
 
URL:  http://eppe.tripod.com/index.htm  
This page was made by  Erik Epp .