IB Notes -- Chemistry and Physics revision notes for the International Baccalaureate
		 
	 
	 
		 
			IB Notes  
			Get them before they change the syllabus
		 
		 
			
			 
				 
					 
					 
					 
						During the lead up to the May 1998 IB exams, several things came to my attention. The first, and perhaps most important was that I actually knew very little of the actual subject matter on which the actual 'affect the rest of my life' exams were based. The second thing was more mundane, being that if I didn't actually get on and learn some of it, bad marks would follow, and with them, the inevitable pain of lectures from parents. The third thing, probably the most interesting to you, was the realisation that the incentive of avoiding lectures from parents was not nearly sufficient to force me into studying. The result, however, of all of these combined, was that, instead of actually studying, I decided to sit around a make web pages about all the stuff I would have been studying if I could have been bothered. ( Matthew Sheppard )
					 
					 
					 
				 
			 
			
		 
  
  
 
  

  
  
   

  Buying something from Amazon? Clicking though these links supports this site with a cut of anything you buy today. 
  
 
 
		 
			That was my original introduction, and it still seems to hold up quite well. The notes have brought me acclaim from some, insults from others and hopefully some good karma. I'd also like to thank the other  contributors  who have helped, and still are helping to improve the quality of the notes, especially those I haven't got around to adding to the page. ( Matt Sheppard )
		 
		 
			Everything in the following pages is  Open Content . We ask that you do not produce derivative internet sites, but rather contribute to this one, we won't, however, stop you from doing so. All other forms of distribution are free for you to use as you wish under the  OC License , though acknowledging the  contributors  would be the nice thing to do.
		 
		 
		 
		If you're new to this site, please jump straight over to the  IB Notes wiki site .
		All the same content in a form which is easy to edit.
		 
		 
		 
			 
				 
					 
						 IB Chemistry Wiki  ( old static notes )
						 

					 
					 
						 IB Physics Wiki  ( old static notes )
						 

					 
				 
				 
					 
						 
					 
					 
						 
					 
				 
				 
					 
						 
							Newer groups 
							These sets of notes are heavily under development (ie aren't done)
							 
								 English  ( old static ),
                                                                 Economics  ( old static ), 
                                                                 History  ( old static ),
                                                                 Biology  ( old static ), 
                                                                 Mathemaics  ( old static ),
                                                                 Psychology  ( old static ), 
                                                                 Anthropology  ( old static ),
                                                                 Philosophy  ( old static )
						 
					 
					 
						Textbook recommendations 
						  A selection of IB related textbooks  ( old static ). 
												Mailing List
						 
							Get early notice of site updates, and help contribute to the improvement of these notes... Subscribe  to the IB Notes Contributors list
						 
					 
				 
			 
		 
		 
			 
		 
		 
			
			 
				 
					 

						Update news


						 
							(16/12/2005)
						 
						 
This site has now all more or less moved to a new  IB Notes wiki site .
For the time being everything will be staying here, but I will eventually put some banners up on each page
redirecting people to the new site, and then just make the redirect automatic. For now, please update any
links or bookmarks you might have and check out the new site.
                         

						 
							(15/01/2005)
						 
						 
Added in a  textbooks  section. Currently it has mostly my recommendations, and some of those are without ever having seen the books in question. Please jump on the  mailing list  and suggest any textbooks which you have found useful.  Also did a quick check through all the links to other sites and removed the broken ones. 
						 
						
						 
							(14/01/2005)
						 
						 
A long time between updates (although I have quietly added a few notes since the last update). I have been throwing a little bit of time at this site behind the scenes lately, and hopefully there will be some significant improvements in the not too distant future. In the meantime, all there is to show for it are google adds and some amazon associate links, the profits from which will be going towards getting this site it's own domain and a web host supporting some sort of scripting at the back-end.
						 

						 
							(10/08/2003)
						 
						 
Added a bunch of  new chem notes  by  Matthew Smith . I'll be turning them from word docs to PDFs in the near future.


						 
						 
							 
								 The News Archives 
						 
					 
					 
					 
					 
						 
							Other IB sites
						 

						 
							 The Box - IB Notes  
							A bunch of IB class notes from Dale Atkin, covering a range of subjects.
						 

						 
							 IB Biology syllabus notes   
							IB History syllabus notes  
							Biology's not 100% complete, and history varies somewhat from school to school, but here they are.
						 

						 
							 IB Geography Notes  
							Developed by the geography teacher from Atlanta International School
						 

						 
							 The IB Notes page  
							Various subject notes by James Robertson
						 
						 
							 Online IB Biology Syllabus  
							A fairly complete looking set of Bio notes.
						 
						 
							 The IB Physics Compendium   
							A veritable compendium of IB physics...I suppose.
						 
						 
							 Diana Herwono's IB Notes Site  
							Yet more IB notes.
						 
						 
							 Interactive IB chemistry syllabus  
							Another set of chemistry notes.
						 
						 
							 Mithras's IB site  
							Some practical IB examples.
						 
						 
							Your site here ? 
							Only if it's reasonably relevant though...