Chemistry Education Resources 
	 
  
   
   
			
  
	
	  
    
    
 

 
 
 

  
		
		
		 
			 
				 
				   Site map 
				  		  Course support pages  
            Development projects  
            Distance education  
            Digital texts  
            for General Chemistry students  
            History of chemistry  
            Home, General interest   
		     Instructional software  
             Media, Podcasts, Open courses   
           
            Pre-college          
  Recent additions (older)   
            Tutorials by topic   
            Visualization, graphics  
            Web indices/collections       
	       
	      

				 
			 
		 
	 

	 
	
		 
			  
			 
				 A selective, annotated collection of the best Web links for Chemistry teachers and course developers 
		     

			 Home page and topics of general interest  
	   
  		
		
		 
		 
				 
					 On this page: 
						  Recent additions   
						    Education and public policy   
						    Humor  
						    Reference information   
						    Reviews  
						    Student-oriented general chemistry sites   
						    Homework and quizzes   
						    Stuff that teachers might get asked...  
						    Textbooks and publishers  
						    Organizations and periodicals  
	  		     			
		 
        
	   
	    
	       This site provides annotated Web links to instructional materials and other resources of interest to Chemistry teachers and course designers. The links are carefully selected to represent what this author considers to be the most useful and exemplary Web-accessible resources that   others can draw upon for ideas and materials. 
		  Right: Prof. J. Hildebrand, 
	       University of California 
	       Berkeley, around 1950  
				 Ê 
				 
				 Search this site and all sites we link to for Chemistry Education resources: 
				    
				 
		  
  		    Note: Links that have recently changed are indicated 
    	   byÊ>. Links contained in {braces} are  archives  that presumably are no longer being maintained. Links that were inaccessible at the last link-check are indicated in strikeout type. 
		   
	     ÊÊLast link-check: 2011.01.05; ÊLast update: 
	   		2011-07-23
	    
       
     
   
	  

 
	
			
			 
				   Recent additions worth noting  
				  
				   
				     
				       Please note that in 2011 we have added the following subsections to the page on media: 
		                Free Online Textbooks ,  Simulations ,  Interactive Media Development  
				       2011 
				        Acid-base tutorial  (PDF format; Dan Dill, Boston U) - this excellent tutorial covers all the major topics commonly encountered at the general chemistry level, with an unusually thorough treatment of buffer systems. 
				        Instrumental Chemistry  - This anonymous and rather peculiar set of pages deals mainly with analytical separation methods: theory, liquid phase, gas phase, and sample preparation. It employs a series of selectable graphics, many of them very good, and displays some text relating to each one, although it rarely offers a detailed explanation of each image. 
				        The Khan Academy  is a remarkable and ambitious non-commercial undertaking that offers over 1600 free  Science-related videos  (via YouTube), including a sizeable number devoted to  Chemistry . The videos I have looked at are basically animated blackboard talks. The talks themselves are exceptionally well presented, and amount to short mini-lectures that can be quite effective. 
				        Chemistry Explained:  Foundations and applications - At first glance, this site appears to be just an A-Z index to a series of short definitions of the many topics it covers, but clicking on the name of the topic itself brings up a fairly detailed (but anonymously composed) description or exposition of the subject. 
				       			      
					   New or Revised Chem1 Virtual Textbook modules 
					   The  reference text for General Chemistry  is intended to serve as a supplement to or substitute for a conventional textbook. It is licensed for non-commercial use under Creative Commons. 
					   
					    Properties of Gases : understanding matter at its simplest (2011) - A complete rewrite of the original 2003 version. 
					    Kinetics and Dynamics of Chemical Change  - (2010-2011) Rate of a reaction, differential and integrated rate laws, half-life, collision theory, activation energy and the Arrhenius equation, elementary processes, reaction mechanisms and chain reactions, catalysis and catalysts. 
	 				  
					  
				        Blogging the Periodic Table  -  "a series of 28 "Wild, weird, wonderful stories about the elements that make up our universe" by Sam Kean. This series appeared in  Slate  in mid-2010. 
				        Elementymology & Elements Multidict  - Speaking of the periodic table, what do they call the element strontium in Georgia (the country, not the state!)? Answer: ???????????. If gems like this fascinate you, have a look at this site by Peter van der Krogt, which  is all about the element names and their origins, not just in English, but in 97 different languages. 
				        Online Books on Chemistry at the Library of Congress  - this extensive index is arranged by LC catalog number. From Boyle's Skeptical Chymist to my own Chem1 Virtual Textbook, it's all here! And if you wonder how all those Chemistry catalog numbers starting with Q are organized,  see here . 
				        WikiBooks on Chemistry  - Many topics in general chemistry are covered here, and are worth looking at. But as in any "wiki-" type project to which anyone can contribute, the quality is variable, and the visual design is primitive. 
				        Welcome to Educational Vodcasting!  - "This site is devoted to teaching educators how to use podcasts and vodcasts to increase student achievement. This is the brainchild of Jonathan Bergmann and Aaron Sams who are pioneers in the field of using vodcasts in the classroom. They have devised a new method of teaching called Pre-Vodcasting. In this model, students watch vodcasts at home and class time is spent in engaging hands-on activities and directed problem solving." 
				        ChemPrime  is an NSF-sponsored attempt to illustrate the practical applications of chemical principles. It is set up as a Wiki, to which anyone can contribute. The index is very well organized, but suffers from too many entries (Gay-Lussac's law in Foods?) that lead nowhere. See also this ACS Symposium book chapter abstract by Ed Vitz entitled  Developing ChemPRIME:  Transforming the Didactics and Pedagogy of the General Chemistry Course with a Wiki Text. 
				        Chemistry, life, the universe & everything (CLUE) project  - this ambitious site by two well-known chemistry educators provides readings which are intended to present various Chemistry topics in a broader context, in the hope that this will motivate students to master the underlying chemistry. 
				        ChemPaths: Student Resources for General Chemistry  - "This site is the Student Access Portal to many of the  Chemistry Education Digital Library  collections, and has been built to assist instructors in providing a means to bring all of these multimedia resources into one cohesive package ready for student-use." 
				        PhET Interactive Science Simulations  - This NSF-sponsored site at U Colorado Boulder serves as a clearinghouse for simulation programs and solicits contributions from developers. A fair number of  Chemistry simulations  are available for download. 
				        Atomic Weights of Ten Chemical Elements About to Change  - and you thought that atomic weights were forever? See this December 2010 news release from the US Geological Survey! 
				        General Chemistry Notes  - According to the blurb on this commercial site, these note are "written by actual chemistry professors [and are] designed to combine both a student's lecture notes AND textbook materials into one easy-to-read and easy-to-understand format. When one downloads the entire set, 14-page samples of notes for each topic can be viewed without charge. 
				       
					   Note: earlier "recent additions" can be found  here .  
					   
				     
			       
				 
				 
			 
			
			 
				   Education and public policy 
			    
				    In Budget Crunch, Science Fairs Struggle to Survive  - (NY Times, Dec 2010) 
				    A Quest to Explain What Grades Really Mean  - U North Carolina confronts grade inflation (NY Times, Dec 2010) 
			      UK's loose libel laws stifle science: 
   
	    		   Simon Singh and the silencing of scientists  (Guardian, 25 Feb 2010) 
	    		  Silencing Justice: The government must stop allowing England's libel courts to be used by the rich and powerful to stifle free speech  (ProgressOnline, Feb 2010) 
	    		  Britain, Long a Libel Mecca, Reviews Laws  (Sarah Lyall, NYT 10 Dec 2009) 
	    		  BCA drops libel action against Simon Singh  (Guardian, 15 April 2010) 
	    		 
				    In a Digital Future, Textbooks Are History   (NY Times - August 8, 2009) This article describes how a combination of evolving student attitudes and the limitations and costs of conventional textbooks are encouraging the use of digital materials in the classroom. 
			      Math Skills Suffer in U.S., Study Finds  (N. Y. Times, October 2008) - The United States is failing to develop the math skills of both girls and boys, especially among those who could excel at the highest levels, a new study asserts, and girls who do succeed in the field are almost all immigrants or the daughters of immigrants from countries where mathematics is more highly valued. 
				    First It Was Song Downloads. Now ItÕs Organic Chemistry.  (N. Y. Times, July 2008) "All forms of print publishing must contend with the digital transition, but college textbook publishing has a particularly nasty problem on its hands. College students may be the angriest group of captive customers to be found anywhere." 
				    Online, a free challenge to pricey college texts  - article in Los Angeles Times, August 2008. See also  Online 'open textbooks' save students cash  (USA Today, July 2008) 
				    Make Textbooks Affordable  - Campaign to Reduce College Textbook Costs offers its report Exposing the Textbook Industry: How Publishers' Pricing Tactics Drive Up the Cost of College Textbooks. There are also many links to various facets of the Open Textbook movement. 
			      "Don't try this at home"  - a 2006 article from Wired Magazine that shows how suppliers of chemicals to scientific amateurs are being hounded out of business by U.S. terrorist-paranoia. See also  {this page}  from one of the afflicted companies.  
			      The Chemistry Set Generation  - This 2007 article in the RSC's  Chemistry World  takes a nostalgic look at the now-bygone era of the home chemistry set. 
			       Chemistry at Play  - An article by Rosie Cook in the ChemHeritage Discover magazine outlines the history and demise of the chemistry set. 
			        Banned: the Golden Book of Chemistry Experiments  - a commentary by Chris Brunner. 
			     Chemistry Sets, Past and Present - Great video report from Adam Rogers and Wired Science about the impotent chemistry sets being sold today and the glorious ones of the past. (Disappeared in 2010, no archive) 
			      Math Wars!  - an article that appeared in Education World. 'The TIMSS studies have incited a hot debate centered on the way in which mathematics is being taught in many classrooms in this country. Is a traditional approach better than a "whole math" approach? Which side will win out in America's "Math Wars"?'  
				    Many Going to College Are Not Ready, Report Says  (Tamar Lewin, NY Times August 2005) Only about half of this year's high school graduates have the reading skills they need to succeed in college, and even fewer are prepared for college-level science and math courses, according to a yearly report from ACT, 
				    Online Learning  - A 2009 U.S. Dept. of Education report Evaluation of Evidence-Based Practices in Online Learning 
				  		A Meta-Analysis and Review of Online Learning Studies 
				    Student Alternative Conceptions in Chemistry  - This report, edited by Christopher Horton, is a product of the Modeling Instruction in High School Chemistry Action Research Teams held at Arizona State University in 2001-2004. It attempts to identify key misconceptions which impede student progress and to show how instruction can actually enhance these misconceptions. It was originally published in the California J. of Science Education 7(2) 2007, and can be downloaded as an 82-page pdf file. 
			      > Beyond Appearances: StudentsÕ misconceptions about basic chemical ideas. This is an extensive and carefully done report by Vanessa Barker for the Royal Society of Chemistry. It focuses on the 1
				    
				    te its length (90 pages), teachers and course designers can quickly find the material pertinent to a given topic, such as changes of state, stoichiometry, equilibrium, etc. This excellent resource can be  downloaded  as a PDF document.
			    RSC has also published a  book  (authored by Keith Taber) on ths same subject.
			     Some other similar reports are listed on RSC's  Chemical Misconceptions page   
				    National Center for Case Studies Teaching in Science  provides links to information, examples, workshops and conferences. 
				    {Science and ...}  - A ChemistryCoach site containing many 
			    links to ethics, gender, art, literature, poetry, culture, race, politics, religion, etc. (Link is to last archived update, 4/2007.)  
				    Statement on Computer Simulations in Academic Laboratories  - the "official ACS position". 
				   The Status of High School Chemistry Teaching is one of a series of reports based on data from the  2000 National Survey of Science and Mathematics Education , a survey of 5,765 science and mathematics teachers in schools across the United States. Areas addressed include: teacher backgrounds and beliefs, needs for and participation in professional development, course offerings, instructional objectives and activities, and instructional resources. The report itself can be  downloaded  as a PDF document. 
				   What is Chemistry? Two places to start:  European Chemistry Thematic Network , Steve Lower's  one-web-page overview . 
				     Perspectives of Chemists:  Tracking conceptual understanding of student 
			      learning in chemistry at the secondary and university levels - Describes a chemistry curriculum and assessment 
			      project that has framed the Òbig ideasÓ of chemistry in order to provide developmental cohesion 
			      and promote conceptual understanding for students. ( Stacey Group , UC-Berkeley, 2003) 
			      
			   
   
			
			 
				   Humor and the lighter side 
				  
				   General 
				    Chemistry Trivia Quizzes  - this site provides access to a variety of quizzes from different sources. 
				    chemistry.org Joke-a-Rama  - guaranteed by the American Chemical Society to make you laugh. 
				    Chemistry jokes  - this well-organized collection is part of a more general science humor site. 
				   Science cartoons - a collection of Stan Eale's work (British!) - (unfortunately disappeared in 2006.)  
				    Sidney Harris Chemistry Cartoons  (Science Cartoons Plus) - a showcase of this well-known science cartoonist's work.  
				   The  Science Trivia  site has a special section devoted to  Chemistry topics .  
				     {Scientists at work cartoons}  - a nice collection, but an almost unreadable color combination on the home page. (Last archive from Feb 2007) 
				    Comic book periodic table  - "... and now for something completely different." This popular classic is by John Selegue and James Holler of the University of Kentucky.  
				     "Never mix alkali metals with water"  - "not your usual boring science video" from Braniac Science Abuse (Movie; 3 min 16 sec)  
				    Kelvin is Lord!! All praise Lord Kelvin!  A spoof cult site for the thermodynamically inclined. 
				    Molecules with silly or unusual (or suggestive) names  - an amusing and informative site by Paul May of Bristol U. (UK) that will likely have special appeal to teen males of all ages. 
				    Science humor WebRing  - some of it is pretty corny, but it's more fun than balancing redox equations. 
				    The story of Schroedinger's cat  (an epic poem) by Cecil Adams  
				    10 Ways To Get Thrown Out Of Chemistry Lab  (some a bit on the sick side) 
				    The Table of Condiments that Periodically Go Bad  Ñ taking the periodic table a bit too far! 
				   Dangers of Dihydrogen monoxide: the National Exposure Warning Center's  Dihydrogen Monoxide Research Division . 
				   Ê 
				   Games and activities 
				    Sciences Jeopardy! Games  - this U Pittsburgh site covers general, organic, analytical and biochemistry. 
				    ChemBalancer and Element Quiz  - four games you can play online. 
				     ChemDoku  is a logic puzzle game similar to Sudoku (Windows-only download). 
				     ChemGameTutor  - A graphically-interesting design intended to help refine Chemistry knowledge by Peter Lichten. The author invites inquiries from teachers who would like to incorporate the game into a class-wide competitive activity in which students can compare their scores. 
				    Give Them Money : The Boltzmann Game, a Classroom or Laboratory Activity Modeling Entropy Changes and the Distribution of Energy in Chemical Systems. PDF or Zip download of printed material including Instructor Notes.  
				   A large collection of Chemistry drills, some in the form of arcade games, can be found at the  {DigitalGraphics site} . These are Windows-only, and many are shareware. (Last archive 2/2006)  
				     Science-related songs  
				   The  MASSIVE database  contains information on over 1700 science and math songs, many available as MP3 downloads. Another large collection can be found at  Science song resources  Ñ part of the "Dr. Chordate" collection. Some more specialized sites: 
				   
                      Chem Classics Collection  by Mark Rosengarten - a DVD collection of clever Chemistry videos, including his earlier "30 Songs of Chemistry". 
                      PhysicsSong.org  features everything from songs about Snell's law, to unreleased 1952 Tom Lehrer recordings, and songs once sung by the Cavendish Society in the early 1900's. 
                      Songs about Science XIV  (a blog from Nature Ñ The Nano Song and Ring of Fire. 
                      Science songs  - this Haverford College Physics site has links to a large number of online recordings.  
                     The  Science Songwriters' Association  maintains a listing of its members' pages 
                     >  {This site}  provides MP3's of some old William Stirrat/Lou Singer science songs from the 1950's (²2007) 
                      Norm Walker's Time-tested Tales CD  has an amusing song about Ohm's law in the form of a Western shoot-'em-up story  
                     The  Artichoke Band  is an LA-based group that has released its first CD, "26 Scientists" 
			       
				     Tom Lehrer's "The Elements" song  - animated sing-along version, and other Tom Lehrer links for nostalgic boomers.  
				   Not all science songs are for the kiddies;  {metabolic Songs}  (with text and audio music tracks) intended to help biochem students keep track of all those metabolic pathways. (Paul Price, UCSD) Sample: Glucose, by hexokinase is turned to G6P / (You might use glucokinase, you must use ATP) 
				   Ê 
				 
			 
			
			 
				   Reference information  
				  
				    Chemistry Department Web Sites  - this excellent collection covering U.S. 4-year colleges is maintained by Chuck Huber at UCSD. For  non-US sites , see Michael Barker's extensive list . 
				    ChemFinder  - A free service from Cambridge Software that allows you to search for a chemical name, CAS Number, molecular formula or molar mass.  
				    Minerals  - an extensive, easily-searched database of mineral names, formulas, and locations from this commercial site. See also  this other listing  of sites dealing with mineralogy.  
				   Nobel Prizes in Chemistry - from the official  Nobel Society site  (with links to photos and biographies);  Wikipedia's list  is more concise and informative.  Another concise list with pictures , but not up-to-date. 
				    Units, measures and conversions dictionary  - provides a summary of most of the units of measurement to be found in use around the world today (and a few of historical interest), together with the appropriate conversion factors needed to change them into a 'standard' unit of the SI. 
				   Web sites of  U.S. public schools ,  community colleges ,  4-year colleges and universities . 
				   Elements - ever wonder which of the less-common ones you can buy, and in what form? This commercial page from  American Elements  provides a quick reference.  
				    The Internet Encyclopedia of Science  - this extensive A-Z collection by David Darling covers many Chemistry topics. 
				     Chemistry Explained:  Foundations and applications - At first glance, this site appears to be just an A-Z index to a series of short definition of the many topics it covers, but clicking on the name of the topic itself brings up a fairly detailed (but anonymously composed) description or exposition of the subject. 
				   Ê 
				 
			 
			
			 
				   Reviews 
				  
				    Chemistry: A project of the American Chemical Society  - this review by Jeffrey Kovic, entitled "A new way to learn Chemistry", appeared in the July 19, 2004 C&EN.  
				    {CTI Web Reviews}  - selected reviews of Web sites devoted to various areas of Chemistry. (Link is to April 2007 archive.)  
				    "Hal's Picks of the Month"  reviews books and recent articles for teachers of chemistry and related sciences. 
				    Uncle Tungsten  - this review of Oliver Sack's evocative recollection of his early fascination with Chemistry appeared in the New York Times in November 2001. 
				    A matter of degrees : What Temperature Reveals About the Past and Future of Our Species, Planet, and Universe. By Gino Segr. (NYT, 2002) 
				   Ê 
				 
			 
			
			 
				   Student-oriented General Chemistry sites  
				  
				    General Chemistry Online!  - an interactive guide to college chemistry, maintained by Fred Senese of Frostberg State University (MD). A well-organized wealth of material, including collections of notes and guides for introductory General Chemistry, skills checklists and online self-grading examinations, and a Q&A column. 
				    General Chemistry: starting points for students  is a carefully-made selection of the best links  for students enrolled in General Chemistry courses at the HS, AP, and college levels. Instructors who have Web pages for their own courses are invited to link to this site, or they may use it as a basis for building their own. 
				    The ChemCollective  "is a collection of virtual labs, scenario-based learning activities, and concepts tests which can be incorporated into a variety of teaching approaches as pre-labs, alternatives to textbook homework, and in-class activities for individuals or teams. It is organized by a group of faculty and staff at Carnegie Mellon University for college and high school teachers who are interested in using, assessing, and/or creating engaging online activities for chemistry education."  
				    Elemental discoveries  A monthly 'zine featuring chemistry topics and reviews. 
				    The Chemogenesis Webbook  - this extensive, excellent and comprehensive site by Mark Leach tells how chemistry emerges from the Periodic Table and bifurcates into the rich and extraordinary science that we know and experience.  
				    Tanner's General Chemistry  - a large collection of pages on matter (including quantum theory), physical chemistry, electrochemistry, and aqueous solutions. 
				    The Alchemy virtual library  An extensive collection of texts, graphic images and book references assembled by Adam McLean. See also this nicely-done list of  Elemental Alchemy Symbols .  
				     WikiBooks on Chemistry  - Many topics in general chemistry are covered here, and are worth looking at. But as in any "wiki-" type project to which anyone can contribute, the quality is variable, and the visual design is primitive. 
				   Ê 
				 
			 
			
			 
				   Homework and quizzes 
				  
				   (See also the separate Web page on  Course Tools ) 
				    The MICROSOC Computer Assisted Testing Files  - This question bank was originally developed in the 1960-70s at Calif. State U - Dominguez Hills. It contains thousands of items, is in the public domain, but needs reformatting to be really useful to teachers.  
				    > BestChoice  (Sheila Woodgate, University of Auckland, NZ) provides interactive quizzes on a large variety of General Chemistry topics. A hierarchical menu offers quick access to each section which contains one or more review screens and a large number of questions selected through a pull-down menu; approximately 2500 pages are presently available. Free registration is currently available to non-UA users. Rather browser-sensitive; works well with IE on Windows/Mac. 
				    Online Quiz  from Alwyn Botha covering elementary General Chemistry with special emphasis on the periodic table. 
				    CSUDH Electronic Homework system  is an elaboration of an earlier  Web-based exercise  system developed by George Wiger at California State U.- Dominguez Hills. An "export" version is available for installation on local Unix/Linux systems, or it can be run from CSUDH's system. 
				     >{  Chemistry Online Homework System}  developed by Glen Lo and colleagues at Nicholls State U (LA). Visitors can try out the system by logging in to courses created by the developers using the alias<username>PRACTICE. You can also get a teacher's perspective by logging in to the "Teacher's Tools" as Guest (password=Guest). The site (which was updated in 2000) now covers about 90 percent of General Chemistry and substantial portions of quantitative analysis and P. chem. (² 2007; link is to last archived version) 
				     Chemistry homework help  - this compilation of sites, some free, some pay-per-answer, is the last resort for the desperate or the lazy. 
				    ConcepTest Collection  A collection of downloadable quiz questions. They are intended mainly for presentation in lecture or tutorial classes. Students vote on the possible answers, then try to persuade their neighbors in the lecture room that they are correct, and finally vote again. This form of peer instruction is often an effective pedagogical method, and it also provides the instructor with on-line feedback as to how well the class is following the lecture. 
				     Carl David of the University of Connecticut developed a  collection of General Chemistry  {Practice exams and problems for Physical Chemistry} . The latest (2006) version is available in this archive.  
				   > ChemSkill Builder  (Electronic Homework Systems) is a commercially-available suite of PC-based lessons for general-, prep- and organic chemistry designed to be used as electronic homework. Scores earned through the use of CSB are stored on a student disk for later addition to a course file. 
				    {How to deal with ill-posed questions}  - this anonymous page has some useful advice for teachers and students. (² 2006)  
				    WebAssign  is a homework delivery service that provides questions taken directly from major textbooks (about 30 Chemistry texts are covered) and also allows instructors to edit or create their own questions, which may involve variables and randomizing. 
				    We_Learn  is a Web-based homework distribution and grading system for Chemistry courses. The questions are taken from a very large database (to which new items can be added) and are assigned through protocols based on either specific topics, or distributed over a variety of topics as would be appropriate for a practice examination. 
				   Examples of institutional homework systems 
				   Contact the developer/administrator for information about the availability of these systems to outside institutions.  
				   
                     Chemistry Online Homework System  developed by Glenn Lo and Michael Janvsa of Nichols State U (LA). (² 2008) 
                     Homework Service - U Texas Austin (gone) 
			       
			   
			 
			
			 
				   Stuff that teachers are expected to know about  
				  
				    Atomic Weights of Ten Chemical Elements About to Change  - and you thought that atomic weights were forever? See this December 2010 news release from the US Geological Survey! 
				    >{Bubbles in Beer}  - Eric Maiken shows how a freshly poured glass of beer (or Champagne) illustrates some general physical properties of bubbles.  [² 11/2007] 
				    The Chemistry of autumn colors  - an informative page from the Shakhashiri/U. Wisconsin  Science is Fun site .  
				    The Chemistry of Tea  - mainly about polyphenols 
				      How to boil an egg  - all about eggs and the science of hard-boiling them by Charles Williams (U Exeter, UK)  
				      Why is mercury a liquid at STP?  - a brief discussion about electrons at relativistic velocities.  
				    Glossary of archaic chemical terms  - from C. Giunta's excellent collection of history-of-chem materials. 
				   
                      Stain removal guide  - How to remove just about every kind of stain you can think of. 
                     >   {Chemistry of Cleaning}  - a nice overview of the nature of "dirt" and the agents used to get rid of it. See also this  Soap and Detergent Association site . (²2007; link is to last archived version) 
                      {The Happy Drinking Bird } - all about the various subspecies of "dippy birds", their history, and how they work. (Link is to last archived copy 7/2007) 
                      Skunk Chemistry  - what's the big stink about? This rather technical article tells the story of how we have come to know what we know.  
                      What is Chemistry good for?  A thoughtful answer to a common question in terms of the stoichiometry of carpets - from Illinois U - Perdue U - Indianapolis. 
                      What's in a modern laundry detergent?  Surfactants, builders, flllers, brightening agents to attract consumer dollars. 
                      What's that stuff?  - Archive of those interesting one-page articles that appear occasionally in Chemical & Engineering News. 
                      Why Did My Skin Turn Green?  How to keep jewelry from discoloring your skin. 
                      Why is water blue?  What causes the blue color that sometimes appears in  snow and ice?  These are just two of the more interesting pages at the Webexhibits  Causes of Color  site.  
                      Food Science Resources   - additional material intended for teachers who wish to incorporate food science into their courses. 
                     Bad Chemistry 
                     This  Bad Chemistry page  by Kevin Lehmann of U. Virginia takes a poke at the hydrophobic effect, the common explanation for how ice skating works, and the nature of ionic solutions.
                     Ê 
				   
				 
   
			

			
			 
				   Textbooks and publishers  
				   Ratings and reviews 
				    TextRev  is a free tool for instructors who wish to generate a customized Web-based survey for their course. The survey provides picture of how much time students spend each week using the textbook, CD-ROM, web site, solution manual, etc. It will also inform you of how helpful students find particular features of the text, e.g., images, sample problems, real-world examples. The site also post aggregative reviews of selected texts. 
				     AR Textbooks, Virtual Chemistry Sets & the Future of Learning  -  a Dec 2010 article on Augmented Reality technology from  ReadWriteWeb. 
				    Make Textbooks Affordable  - Campaign to Reduce College Textbook Costs offers its report Exposing the Textbook Industry: How Publishers' Pricing Tactics Drive Up the Cost of College Textbooks. There are also many links to various facets of the Open Textbook movement. 
				    Online, a free challenge to pricey college texts  - article in Los Angeles Times, August 2008. See also  Online 'open textbooks' save students cash  (USA Today, July 2008) 
				   Ê 
				   Catalogs and lists 
				    Chemical Education Resources Shelf  Formerly known as Chemistry Textbooks in Print, this excellent site i
  - St. Louis.  "Hal's Picks of the Month"  reviews books and recent articles for teachers of chemistry and related sciences.  "Journals for Chemical Educators"  contains information about all those journals you should be reading, and hyperlinks to many of the publishers.  "References for Chemistry Teachers"  is found in the Textbook menu with the other books, even though they aren't textbooks (except for some really weird courses). Resource Shelf is able to search the listing of textbooks for author's names, textbook titles, or publishers. The search utility is found at the bottom of the Index pages. 
				    Textbook Publishers  This is the World-Wide Web Virtual Library Publishers list. 
				   Free downloads of selected advanced Chemistry text- and reference books -  see here  - lots of biochemistry, electrochemistry, Greenwood & Earnshaw's Chemistry of the Elements.... 
				  
				     Online Books on Chemistry at the Library of Congress  - this extensive index is arranged by LC catalog number. From Boyle's Skeptical Chymist to my own Chem1 Virtual Textbook, it's all here! And if you wonder how all those Chemistry catalog numbers starting with Q are organized,  see here . 
				   Some publisher sites 
				    Free Organic Chemistry textbook  - Individual chapters of Organic Chemistry by Daley & Daley can be downloaded as pdf files.  
				    Brooks-Cole chemistry page   
				    Wiley Chemistry  "custom select" 
				   
				    Houghton-Mifflin  Chemistry Instructor's page - info about their products. 
				    McGraw-Hill  has stuff to support Chang's textbook and offers some other multimedia. 
				    
				    
				   Software (non-instructional) 
				    KnowItAll¨ Academic Edition , free for students and teachers, includes tools for structure-drawing, spectral display and analysis, lab report generation, and molecule display.  
				   Visual media 
				   Chemistry Video Consortium maintains a regularly updated list of more than 1000 films, VHS tapes, laser discs, CD ROMs and DVDs. This UK effort is associated with the Royal Society of Chemistry. There are separate sections for viewers over and under age 16. (²2010; access to archive has been blocked by RSC) 
				   Ê 
				 
			 
			 
				   Organizations and periodicals  
				  
				    Science Online  Access to Science Magazine and AAAS pages 
				  
                      American Chemical Society   
					 
                      ChemCenter Home Page  - ACS main resource site, including ACS Journals on the Web and STN. 
                       ACS Division of Chemical Education  Information about the CHED division, divisional resources, and information of interest to chemistry educators and students. 
                      Examinations institute  - ACS DivChemEd offers standardized exams and normative information for high school and college chemistry subjects. 
                      The Computers in Chemical Education Newsletter  is an online publication, edited by Brian Pankuch, containing articles describing a wide variety of topics relating to the use of software and Web-based materials in instruction. 
			       
				   >> Chemistry Education Discussion Group  (on  Google Groups ) replaces the old  CHEMED-L mailing list  that is slated to disappear in August 2011. It provides a forum for discussion of matters of interest to chemical educators at all levels. As of late June 2011, it's not clear if the archives, which go back to 1996, will continue to be available. 
				    Chauttauqua short courses  for college Chemistry teachers is an NSF-sponsored program for faculty development. Several courses, on varied topics, are offered every summer. 
				    The Chemical Educator  An independent journal distributed via the Internet. 
				    Chemical Heritage Foundation  The Chemical Heritage Foundation is attempting to provide a comprehensive list of resources on the history of chemistry available through World Wide Web, as well as access to CHF's collections. 
				    Clemson University web site  Clemson University web site. Information on the ACS Examinations Institute. 
				    IUPAC Committee on Teaching Chemistry  home page 
				     HYLE  A Web-based international journal dedicated to all philosophical aspects of chemistry. Many useful links to conferences, courses, journal articles, and a bibliography with more than 1500 titles. 
				   Journal of Chemical Education 
				   
                     
                        Home Page  - also J. ChemEd Software  
                       Journal of Chemical Education Index To access the on-line, searchable index to this important resource, use the search box at the upper right corner of the  ACS Pubs JCEd page . 
                     
			       
				    National Science Teachers Association  - the NSTA home page, >  Journal of College Science Teaching   
				    Scientific American  This site contains Web-viewable and hyperlinked versions of selected recent articles. Whatever happened to the useful cumulative indices of the past? 
				    Education in Chemistry  - Royal Chemistry Society's analog of J Chem Ed. Selected articles are available to non-subscribers. 
				   Ê 
			   
			 
	
 

 

 
 
  
   
     
This site is a member of WebRing. 
To browse visit  
here .        
 
 


        
        
             © 1995-2011 by Stephen Lower - Simon Fraser University - Burnaby/Vancouver Canada  
            
         
         
            
              

 
              
            This work is licensed under a 
               Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License .
              
              
             
	
	  

	    
	     
	 
	  
 Ê