Educational Resources for Particle Technology 
 
 
 
 
     
 ERPT 
  
 
Educational Resources 
 for Particle Technology
 
   
    Since 1998 ERPT has provided on-line, just-in-time, world-wide, free-of-charge tutorials  in particle technology as a public service of the  Particle Technology Forum  of the AIChE.

 Now, in 2011, this site will be retired because over the past decade 
the resources that ERPT has provided 
have been surpassed by many new websites and applications such as 
  search engines (Google, Chrome, GoogleBooks, GoogleScholar, JSTOR, etc.)
 communal knowledge bases (Wikipedia, YouTube, etc)
 professional networks (Linked-in, AIChE network, ACS network, etc)
 professional organization resource bases (AIChE ChemE on Demand, Knovel, AccessEngineering, etc.)
 


 The contents of the ERPT 
 site will be deleted after November 30, 2011, 
and all that will be remain posted will be a retirement notice so that people who visit 
the site will be informed of what has happened to the site.  
Thank you for your interest and use of this pioneering website.
   

     

 
 
 cross-linked encyclopedic articles
  
  
 
    

 
 
   ERPT site
  WWW
  
 
    

 
 
 
 
 technical publications and abstracts
  
 
    

    


   

TOPIC AREAS

  The Significance of PT 
  Formation from Gas 
  Formation from Liquid 
  Comminution, Attrition 
  Size Enlargement 
  Particle Physics 
 Particle Characterization:
     Non-Optical Methods 
     Optical Methods 
 Storage / Discharge:
     Mechanics: wall stress 
     Dynamics: flow 
  Pneumatic Conveying 
  Fluidized Bed 
  Mixing 
  Separation by Size 
  P./Gas Separation 
  P./Liquid Separation 
  Dispersion in Fluids 
  Rheology 
  Reaction 
  Heating, Drying 
  Safety 
  Simulation, Modeling 
  Specific Applications 
 
 Outline of PT 
  Books on PT 
  Other Ed Resources: 
       booklets
       technical reviews
       CDROM, video 
       Web courses
       short courses
       museums
       teaching methods
 
Contents of ERPT
      
 Vol. 1 (1999) 
      
 Vol. 2(1) (2001) 
      
 Vol. 2(2) (2001) 
      
 Vol. 3 (2002) 
      
 Vol. 4 (2003) 
      
 Vol. 5 (2005) 
  ERPT Authors' Guide 
  How ERPT Evolved 


     
   

WHAT IS ERPT?
 ERPT provides 
 -- tutorials at the undergraduate and graduate level 
 -- ideas and examples for enriching classes and laboratories
 -- typical solutions for common industrial problems

 Professional oversight of the ERPT site is provided by the
 Particle Technology Forum , a technical division of the American Institute 
of Chemical Engineers.  
 Web site design, editing, and maintainance is provided by the Managing Editor of 
ERPT, Ralph D. Nelson, Jr., Ph.D., P.E., Fellow of the AIChE
 
Origin / History 
 ERPT was launched in 1998 as a public education service 
of the Particle Technology Forum.  This Web site provides on-line, just-in-time, world-wide, free-of-charge tutorials 
in particle technology as a public service.  The original goal was to build a site that would eventually provide 
several hundred tutorials, each equivalent to one to three hours of classroom instruction at the third-year college level.  
These would be introductory in nature and in the ideal case would describe the main phenomenological and theoretical aspects 
of the topic, noting industrial applications, large-scale equipment, typical industrial problems, and typical solutions to those problems.
 Over the past ten years usage has grown to over ten thousand visits per month.  See 
 History of ERPT 


   
   
  Explanations and Disclaimers 
 Questions? Email the Managing Editor at 
 URL: http://www.erpt.org/default.htm