Rader's CHEM4KIDS.COM 

	 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 MATTER  |  ATOMS  |  PERIODIC TABLE  |  ELEMENTS 1-36 
 
 REACTIONS  |  BIOCHEMISTRY  |  ET CETERA 
  

  
  

  
 
  

  
  
 
WELCOME TO CHEM4KIDS
  

Thanks for visiting!  Right now, you're on CHEM4KIDS.COM.  If you are looking for basic chemistry information, stay on this site.  It's not just for kids, it's for everyone. We have information on  matter ,  atoms ,  elements , the  periodic table ,  reactions , and  biochemistry .  If you're still not sure what to click, try our  site map  that lists all of the topics on the site. If you surf and get lost in all of the information, use the search function on the side of the pages.
  

 

OKAY!  As we have for ten years, let's start here...
  
So you're asking, what is CHEMISTRY?  Well... Here's our best definition.  Chemistry is the study of  MATTER  and the changes that take place with that matter.
  
Don't ask us why that matters.  It just does.  A lot.  Everything on Earth, everything in our solar system, everything in our galaxy, and everything in the universe is made up of matter. Matter is the 	name that scientists have given to everything that you can touch, or see, or feel, or smell. Go take a look!
 
 

 
 
  

  
  

 
 

  

   
 

 
That's it for the introduction. Now its up to you to click and have fun!  Chem4Kids.com is one of many free science sites developed by the team that made  Biology4Kids ,  Geography4Kids ,  Cosmos4Kids , or  Physics4Kids . We even have a math site called  NumberNut.com .
  
Now it's time for you to dive into our chemistry pages and start learning. Remember, the site offers an introduction to the science of chemistry. If you're not into  graphics like home page image above, check out the  site map   where we list all of the pages of the site for you. Start clicking and have fun!
  
  
  
You can also use this search tool (powered by Google) that will check our site for the chemistry information you need.  Just type in a keyword or phrase and click the search button. The search will look at all of the 4KIDS science sites.
  

 

 
  
  
 
   
    
   
   
    Custom Search
   
 
   
 
 
   
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
       
     
   
 
   

 


  
  

  
 
  
  
 

** Andrew Rader Studios does not monitor or review the content available at these web sites. They are paid advertisements and neither partners nor recommended web sites.
  

 

  
 
  
Chem4Kids Sections
  

  
 
 Matter  |  Atoms  |  Elements & Periodic Table  |  Reactions  |  Biochemistry  |  Et Cetera 
 
 Site Tour  |  Site Map  |  Home Page  |  Real World Examples  |  Glossary  |  Activities & Quizzes 
 
  
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

Read the  TERMS & CONDITIONS and PRIVACY POLICY  for use of Chem4Kids.com. 
©copyright 1997-2011  Andrew Rader Studios , All rights reserved.
  

Ê Ê