ICE Home Page 
   
 

 

    	
				 
						  Home  
						  Specials  
                          Kits & Publications  
                          Order Form  
                       	  Outreach  
						  Education  
						  Research  
                          Nanoscience  
                          About Us  
                       
                        
						
					 

  News Archive  
 

         
          
          
   
     Institute for Chemical Education: Overview 
     Communicating Science—that's what ICE is all about. We are a national center for science educators to develop and disseminate ideas. Our efforts are evident in kits and publications, in programs for students and for teachers, and in research in chemical education. Since its founding in 1983, ICE has led the drive to help teachers revitalize science in schools throughout the United States. From "approachable" science for K–3 teachers ( Super Science Connections ) through nanoscale exhibits for the public to research experiences for teachers, ICE has something for you: 
     
     
     Materials: ICE creates and distributes new materials for teaching and learning 
     ICE carries out  research  in chemical education 
     ICE develops demonstrations and hands-on activities 
      Workshops : ICE sponsors workshops for teachers 
      Outreach : ICE organizes laboratory and demo programs and  chemistry camps  for school children 
     Dissemination: ICE disseminates exemplary ideas via  publications and kits  
      Nanoscience : whether teaching or learning about the nanoworld ICE has many resources to get you started
     
     All of ICE's programs emphasize hands-on science, taught interactively as a means of helping students develop powers of observation and problem solving. ICE aims to stimulate the scientific curiosity of all teachers and students, not just those traditionally well served by our educational system. ICE's goals are to: 
     
     make science hands-on at all levels 
     enable teachers to become better teachers, not merely telling them what to do 
     draw ideas from what teachers say they need 
     develop and distribute materials that are usable and affordable for the average teacher in the classroom 
     encourage incorporation of cutting-edge scientific research, such as nanoscience, into the chemistry curriculum 
     
     More than 3700 teachers of kindergarten through college have attended workshops at ICE headquarters, the University of Wisconsin-Madison, or at other locations across the country. 
     ICE serves as the Education and Outreach arm for NSEC, the  University of Wisconsin–Madison Nanoscale Science and Engineering Center  (NSEC), which is one of 16 centers funded through the National Nanotechnology Initiative. The goal of the NSEC program is to build infrastructure for nanotechnology research and education across the country. 
     The mission of NSEC's Education and Outreach program is to develop new scalable teaching and learning programs, methodologies, and communities aimed at cultivating a diverse next generation of nanoscientists and engineers. NSEC seeks to excite and educate underrepresented groups, build communities of nanoscience and engineering educators through teacher professional development, foster new means of communicating science and engineering research accomplishments to the K-12 community, and design new teaching models to make nanoscience and engineering more inclusive for students with physical and learning disabilities. 
     The ICE programs that collaborate with NSEC include: 
 
  SCIENCountErs  
  Informal Science Education Exhibits  
  Teacher Workshops  
  Independent Laboratory Access for the Blind  
  Today's Science for Tomorrow's Scientists  
  Online Nanoscience for Teachers  
  REU: Research Experience for Undergraduates  
 
 

	       Programs that are supported through NSEC funds will show the NSEC logo on the program page. 
	
			   Support for ICE programs comes from the University of Wisconsin-Madison  
					and through grants from National Science Foundation. 

   
    
          

					 © 2010 Board of Regents of the  University of Wisconsin System