Home 

     
     
     

      
          

      


   

   

           
             
               
                 
                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        
                          Chris Schrempp, B.Sci, Pharm.D., M.Ed
                        
                         
                       
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        
                          Chemistry Instructor, Los Osos High School 
                          6001 Milliken Ave,  Rancho Cucamonga, CA  91737 
                          Room D-110   School Phone: (909) 477-6900  ext. 2410       
                          email:  cschrempp@verizon.net 
                         
                       
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        
                          "I am among those who think that science has great beaty.  A scientist in his laboratory is not only a technician; he is also a child placed before natural phenomena which impress him like a fairy tale".  Marie Curie (1867-1934)
                        
                         
                       
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                      
                      
                         More weather by AccuWeather®  
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        
                           NearingZero.net  
                         
                          
                         
                        
                       
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        AP Chemistry Bulletin Board  - 7/28/2011 
                       
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        Adopt This Classroom! 
                       
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        
                          Can you assist in maintaining the dynamic learning atmosphere in our chemistry  classroom?  Dr. Schrempp has been registered with the well-known  Adopt a Classroom Program .  If you can help with some of our needs, please click on the link!
                        
                          
                         
                        
                       
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        Sailing in San Diego Bay 
                        
                          As a graduation gift we took our daughter, Kelsey, sailing in San Diego.  Check out the video of the "Abracadabra" racing against the "Stars and Stripes"
                        
                         
                       
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        Prep Chemistry Bulletin Board 
                        
                           
                        
                         
                       
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        
                          Tie Dye May 2010 
                          The shirts came out fantastic this year!  See all the photos from Haus's, Fuller's, and Schrempp's classes  HERE .  Also check out the  Tie Dye Page  for instructions and suggestions.
                         
                       
                   

                   
                       
                         
                         
                         
                         
                        
                        
                       

                   

                   
                      
                     
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        
                          Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math
                         
                       
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        
                          For three weeks this summer, four teachers from Los Osos were involved with the Cal Poly STEM Institute. During the program, Kathy Diver, Chris Hartz, Mary Haus, and Chris Schrempp conducted labs, collaborated, visited area labs, and created new STEM-oriented lab activities with student interns. 
                          As we come to completion of the program I will have more to share on what it will bring to the classroom.
                        
                         
                       
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                     
                      
                     
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        
                          Want to see the International Space Station fly over? Click on  this link  to track it! 
                          An alternative site, including satteline tracking, is  Heavens Above 
                         
                       
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        
                          TOTAL INTERNAL REFLECTION 
                          A green laser is passed through a soda bottle full of water and out of a small hole in the side. The laser follows the flow of water out of the hole. This demonstration follows the same principles as fiber optic cables, in which the light follows the cable by reflecting off of the sides of the walls of the cable.
                        
                         
                       
                   

                   
                    
                   

                   
                     
                       
                        
                          AP Chemistry Summer Homework for 2011-2012 
                          
                        
                          Summer Assignment:    Word     PDF  
                          
                            NOTE: online pdf versions of the book ARE NOT AVAILABLE. You must check out a book from the library 
                            
                           Ion List    Ion Flash Cards     Solubility Flash Cards  (for solubility rules, see chart in Chp 4)  
                          Chapter Outline Notes:   Chp 1         Chp 2         Chp 3  
                          There will be a 100pt Review Test on the first 3 chapters, solubilities, and ions on Monday, August 15.  Be Prepared!