Water pseudoscience and quackery 
 
 
 
 
   
   

  

 
 

 

 

  
  

	 
	
			  
			  
			
	
	         Magnets and "catalysts" for softening water, magnetic laundry balls, waters that are "oxygenated", "clustered", "ionized" or "vitalized" (purporting to improve cellular hydration, remove toxins, and repair DNA), high zeta-potential colloids and vortex-treated waters to raise your energy levels, halt or reverse ageing and prevent cancer ? all of these wonders and more are being aggressively marketed via the Internet, radio infomercials, seminars, and by various purveyors of new-age nonsense. The hucksters who promote these largely worthless products weave a web of pseudoscientific hype guaranteed to dazzle and confuse the large segment of the public whose limited understanding of science makes them especially vulnerable to this kind of exploitation. 
	         The purpose of this site is to examine the credibility of these claims from the standpoint of our present-day understanding of science. The latter, of course, is always evolving and is never complete, but it makes an excellent "B.S. filter" that is almost always reliable. It is hoped that the information presented here will help consumers make more informed decisions before offering up their credit cards to those in the business of flogging pseudoscience. 
	
   
  
 

	 
		  AquaQuackery: wellness waters for whatever ails you  
		  "Ionized" and alkaline water   
		 Spend thousands of $ for snake-oil on tap. 
				Also, " pH-balanced water ". 
		    
		  Water cluster quackery   
		 Structure-altered water nostrums and nonsense  
		    
		  Oxygenated waters and worse   
		 This "sports beverage" is great if you have gills, but otherwise it's just an expensive burp!  
		    
		  Wonky-water wellness schemes   
		 "Energized" and "magnetized" water, vortexes, vibrations, biophotons— and then there's the really weird stuff!  
		  Other water-quackery schemes & scams  
		   Coral calcium quackery  
		   Detox Footbath scams   
		   "Energized" water wackadoo  
		   John Ellis Electron Water Machine   
		   "Magnetized" water misinformation   
		   Penta Water pseudoscience    
		   Pi Water piffle   
		  



  
 
		 
				  Frequently-asked questions   
     Please click here before you ask me!  
	  The BunkHouse: gallery of water-related pseudoscience  
	  Cross-reference of products profiled on this site. 
      Some helpful links   
     
  Background: information to help avoid being scammed 
 
 		
		
		  What is pseudoscience?  
     	 How to tell the difference from science 
		
		

          A gentle introduction to water and its structure  
 		 Get the straight dope on water before the hucksters get you! 
		
		  About hard water   
 		 A brief description of the nature of water hardness and scale  
 		   
 		 Dubious water-treatment schemes, mostly 
		
           Magnetic water treatment and related magnetic pseudoscience   
           Also: magnetic laundry balls, fuel-enhancers and similar stuff  
       
            "Catalytic" water softening   
           "Precious-metal" catalysts suck electrons out of the water and money out of your wallet  
       
		   Other alternative softening schemes  
           Ranging from the scientifically questionable to the crackpot 

		 
		    Convert your car to burn water   
		    This old stuff never seems to die. Get the facts here! 
     


  

 
   References: some useful links 
  Another scientist's  musings on water pseudoscience and HHO "free energy". 
 The  Drinking
		Water  section of the Open Directory Project contains links to numerous
		EPA and other informational sites. 
  Drinking Water Resources  - this site contains a wealth of information and hundreds of links, all nicely organized through a menu covering general concerns, contaminants, risk factors and treatment methods. The author is in the water filter business, but he is science-trained and offers reliable advice. 
 Wilkes University has a good  Online
		Information Guide  covering water quality, drinking water, groundwater,
		surface water, common water quality problems and water analysis and testing. 
 For a good review of advanced water-treatment technologies, see the article Waterworks in the April 9, 2001 issue of Chemical & Engineering
		News. (ACS members can access it  here .)
		This has a particularly good discussion of large-scale microfiltration and
		reverse-osmosis methods such as are being used for wastewater treatment
		in Orange County CA and elsewhere. 
 The University of Arizona Hydrology Dept has a very comprehensive, student-oriented  Western Water Resources  site which has a lot of links of general interest, including to water-related sites of EPA and USCGS. See also  Agriculture Canada's site  on farm water resources and treatment. Some notes on the historical development of water-treatment processes can be found  here .  
 This private risk management organization has an extensive list of  common water contaminants  with information on their allowed levels, health effects, and remediation technologies. 
 U.S. residents may wish to see the  NYTimes "What's in Your Water" site  and check on the data for a particular city or county.   
  What's in your well?  A guide to well water reatment and maintenance from Health Canada. 
  Drinking water chlorination  - from the Health Canada site  
  Choosing a water treatment system  - a Government of Ontario site 
 Drinking water standards: See the  US EPA Water Standards site  and especially their  pdf document  that lists specific contaminants and their concentration limits. A  similar table  is published by Health Canada. 
  Scams and Frauds  page from the excellent  CultureJammer's site . Hundreds of links. 
  SkepDoc  - Retired physician Dr. Harriet Hall writes about medicine, science, and quackery. 
  Dead water, lies or fiction?  Blog on various water-quackery scams  
 Multi-level marketing -  Wikipedia  -  Pro  - Con:  "Ten big lies"  ,  MLM Watch  
  Alternative Medicine$ The Multi-billion $ Fraud!  
 Medical/Health pseudoscience, quackery and fraud:  QuackWatch ,  The Quackometer  
    
		 U.S. Federal Trade Commision:  index page  -- 
		 File-a-complaint  
	  U.S. Federal Drug Administration  Consumers Page  -  Dietary Supplement Advertising Rules  
   
	    
  
    
This site is a member of WebRing. 
 To browse visit  
Here .      
  
 
 
 
		 
				  
						- - -
				  
		 
 
      

		  
	    
           
             Why do I waste my time on this stuff? Chemistry is my favorite subject, and I hate to see it misused to confuse, mislead or defraud the public.  
              Stephen Lower   
			 is a  retired faculty member  of the 
			 Dept of Chemistry ,  Simon Fraser University  
Burnaby / Vancouver, Canada 
           
		             
            
              
           
         
 
   This work is licensed under a  Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported License .