Mr. Guch's Cavalcade o' Chemistry -- Chemistry help for students and
free resources for teachers and homeschooling families! 

  

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
  
   
      
   
   
   Mr. Guch's    
   Cavalcade
  o' Chemistry   
   
   
      
   
  
 

  
Here it is, your one-stop chemistry shop! 







Students:
 Get online help
and tutorials , check out  Mr. Guch's blog , read a  free magazine , watch me  ride a hovercraft , or watch  me light a fire with my flaming hand .


My students, click:
 here  for homework and such.


 Teachers, get free planning materials  here . If you’ve got questions about the site,
visit our  FAQ page .  Or  email me !   


     

 
  
   
   Top Ten
  Reasons to Take Chemistry   
    
  10)  It's fun to say
  "Erlenmeyer"  
  9)  If your parents ground you, dissolve their car!  
  8)   Mr.
  Guch's Chili Recipe!   
  7)  Colleges like it more than  "Basketweaving
  101"   
  6)  It makes you look smart, like what's his name, that physics
  dude in the wheelchair  
  5)  Find out what's in your school lunch!  
  4)  You don't have to mess with dead things like in Biology.  
  3)  Goggles, Goggles, Goggles!  
  2)  You don't have to get all sweaty like you do in P.E.  
  1)  Many major corporations are now asking applicants to balance
  equations   
   
   
   
    
     
      Helpdesk    
     Having problems with your homework?  Learn
    chemistry with free Mr.
    Guch-written tutorials and practice problems or through other
    great internet resources. An added bonus:
    Mr. Guch’s odd and unusual sense of humor.   
     
    
    
     
      For
    Teachers    
     Free labs,
    worksheets, and other activities for teachers! If you’re teaching chemistry and
    wondering where you can get resources to jam into your students’
    heads, look no further!   
     
    
    
     
      Punk Interviews    
     We’ve interviewed several different punk rock
    musicians about their own experiences taking high school chemistry. Find out about their chemical
    experiences!   
     
    
   
      
   
  
 

     

     

























     

     

  

Advocacy:   Dow Chemical &   Andrew Liveris  plan to bring manufacturing back to America through cleaner energies. 
   

  

 Copyright (c) 1998-2011 by Mr. Guch; All Rights Reserved.