chemmybear.com 
		  
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 


	 
		 
 

 
 
 

 

 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
	 --Resources by Chemmybear & His Students--  
	 
	    
	    
	    
	    
	 

	 
	  Some Mole Clip Art  
		Student drawn moles to add to your handouts.  
	  Copper + Nitric Acid-- 
		A Lecture Experiment  
		The gas produced both dissolves in water and cools producing a surprising ending to this demonstration.  
	  Animated 
		Molecules  
		Animated GIF files of the common molecular shapes by Robyn Rindge.  
	  An Element of Interest  
		Click here and be sent to some interesting information of a random element or visit the  index page  to choose your element.  
	 

	 
	    
	    
	    
	    
	 

	 
	  Double Bond Formation  
		Student's movie (ethene.avi) of C 2 H 4  forming.  This is a large file (about 952 KB).  
	  Liquid Oxygen 
		A Lecture Experiment  
		Using liquid nitrogen, we liquify some oxygen and observe its unique properties.  
	  AP Chemistry 
		Study Cards  
		Here are Adobe Acrobat¬ versions of Groves' Chemistry and AP Chemistry study cards used at SPHS.  
	  Classifying Reactions 
		Predicting Reactions  
		Here are some ideas about how to classify and organize the reactions you see in the Predicting Reactions portion of the AP Chemistry Test.  
	 


	 
	    
	    
	  
	    
	 

	 
	  Blueprinting on Fabric  
		Here is an oxidation-reduction laboratory activity put together by one of the students based on a book on Blueprinting on Fabric.  
	  Dr. Grovenstein and Igor's 
		Halloween Lecture Notes  
		If you are a current SPHS chemistry student, do NOT look here until after Halloween. 
	 Stuff I Should Know For The AP Test But Don't Know Yet 
		[ Page 1  |  Page 2 ] Compilation of useful stuff to know.  Originally compiled by Ben Ku. (Adobe Acrobat File) 
	  Standing Wave Graphic  
		This page contains a standing wave graphic from an old Apple IIe program that was once available from Project Seraphim. 
		The graphic shows how two traveling waves on the same string result in a standing wave.  
	 



	 
	    
	  
	  
	  
	 

	 
	  Chemistry Wallpapers  
		Here are 18 wallpapers based on the chapters of our textbook.  The graphics are clever and well drawn.  
	  
	  
	  
	 
	 





		   	 

	 
	 --Other Resources (some interesting links)--  
	 
	    
	  
	  
		  
	  
	    
	 
	 
	  ACS Exams Institute  
		This is the center of the American Chemical Society's Exams Institute, a source of the ACS High School Exam, HS Advanced Exam, and Laboratory Assessments. You can learn about the exams available and who runs the store.  
	  
	  The ChemTeam  
		Check out the gallery of chemistry photos, the classic papers, the tutorials, and comprehensive collection of old NChO exams with answers for practice.  
	  
	  Steve Marsden's Chemistry Page  
		Steve displays the labs he uses, elements of the periodic table, and other useful things on his page.  
	 





	 
	    
	  
	    
	  
	    
	 

	 
	  The Chemistry Animation Project  
		Dr. Nate Lewis at CalTech has incorporated beautiful graphics (Mechanical Universe quality) into several ten-minute single subject videos. The project is supported by NSF and the videos are only $20 each. Visit the  Caltech bookstore  to purchase. 
	  
	  Chemistry: A Science in Context  This textbook has wonderful online tutorials that help explain and illustrate important chemical concepts. 
	  
	  Handouts by Chapter  
		Resources for my AP Chemistry students. Almost all of the handouts, practice exams, many answers, and a few tutorials reside here organized by chapter. General Chem is the link below. 
	 






	 
	    
	  
	    
	  
	    
	 

	 
	  College Board Online . 
		The College Board has an extensive site with information about the Chemistry AP exam and other offerings by College Board.  
	  
	  Flinn Scientific  
		Here is a link to Flinn Scientific's online site. They offer several online teacher resources besides their usual collection of useful materials.  
	  
	  Chemistry at SPHS  
		This is a place to find practice exam answers and other materials for General Chemistry at SPHS. 
	 







	 
	    
	  
	    
	  
	    
	 

	 
	  Science Is Fun 
		In the Lab of Shakhashiri  
		Dr. Bassam Shakhashiri is one of my heroes in chemical education. This is his site where he shows some of the things that make Science Fun.  
	  
	  Educational Innovations, Inc.  
		This group sells lots of fun and useful products. I especially like their thermochromic periodic tables and UV sensitive paints, posters, and T-shirts. They stock pop bottle preforms, poly-ox gel, hand-boilers, etc. Absolutely check these guys out!    
	  
	  Create-A-Graph  
	This is an easy-to-use website for creating graphs.  The graphs are great for Gas Law and Kinetics assignments.  Be sure to choose the XY Graph.  The Line Graph equally spaces your data. 
	 






	 
	  
	  
	    
	  
	  
	 

	 
	  
	  
	  Chalkbored  
		Jeremy Schneider is a chemistry teacher turned author.  He has uploaded many of his lessons, labs, notes, and Powerpoint presentations on his website for students and teachers to use.   He has a link to  Chemistry-11  and to  Chemistry -12 . 
	  
	  
	 

	 





	 
	 
	 
	 
	 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	    
		Mr. Groves is available by e-mail at  pgroves@fc.spusd.net . 
		 Paul Groves , chemistry teacher at  South Pasadena High School  
	Updated 3/21/2009 
	 
	 


     
   Proudly Donated by Lunarpages Web Hosting