Global Instructional Chemistry  
 
 
 
 
  Global Instructional Chemistry 
 
Welcome to a new concept in the distributed teaching of Chemistry. Over the coming
 years, these pages will be built up to include small "stories" or case histories
illlustrating modern chemistry in action, liberally dosed with  "hyperactive"  molecules 
which you will be able to rotate, measure and generally play with. The content will include
chemical problems suitable for tutorial and classes, a page where you
can log-in to suitable on-line information databases, pages where you can acquire
programs and other software, and any other good ideas that people come up with.
We expect these pages will be used to augment and enhance local courses 
rather then to replace their teachers! 
 
 
 
  We recommend  Netscape 2.02 or 3.01  
  How to chemically configure it   
   A collection of chemical helper programs 
  
   Contribute to GIC  and  Acknowledgements 
  Further Information  and  Conditions of use  
 
 
 Contents 
 
 
 Reviews of Chemical Education on the Internet
	 
	  Y. Wolman ,  TrAC/Internet Column  
	   Teresa Julia Zielinski and Masayuki Shibata: The Education Internet Connection: What shall it be? 
	   http://www3.springer-ny.com/chedr/sample/23tjz897.htm 
	   A good collection of chemistry webercises 
	 
	 
  Tutorial Problems in Pericyclic Reaction Mechanisms 
  Analysing 2D NMR Spectra using Hyperactive Molecules 
  Electronic Chemistry Library  at Imperial College.
  A Visual Guide to Molecular Model Types and Rendering Techniques 
  Chemistry Course Materials at Virginia Tech 
  SCOP: Structural Classification of Proteins  
  Laboratory  and  Lecture  Courses at the University of West Indies, Jamaica.  
  WebElements - a periodic table and isotope database  
  Welcome to the World of Physical Chemistry at UCSD 
	 
	  Quantum Mechanics 
	  X-Ray Diffraction 
	  Molecular Dynamics 
	  Statistical Mechanics 
	  Spectroscopy 
	 
  A complete course on the Principles of Protein Structure 
  A Glossary of Biologically important Molecules and Terms  and  index search 
  ChemCAI:  Instructional software for Chemistry from Simon Fraser University 
  On line MOPAC Modelling Course 
  Experience a Top International Conference in Organic Chemistry on the Web! 
 Applications of Virtual Reality Modelling Language to Chemistry. You will need  a VRML browser such as  Webspace .
	 
	  Frontier Molecular Orbitals in VRML at Imperial College 
	 Create your favorite membranes using an  Interactive VRML membrane scene builder  at the University of Oxford.
	   VRML 3D models of atomic orbitals  at Virginia Tech.
	 The   MathMol Library of 3-D Molecular Structures  at New York University.
	 
  Network Science : Online reports of Contemporary Chemistry
  Introduction to Statistics  for the Chemistry Laboratory at UMass Dartmouth. 
  CAUT Computational Chemistry Project  including many  computational chemistry teaching modules 
  Manual and Computer-aided Literature Searching 
  Molecule of the Month collections 
  On-line Course on Stereochemistry  (Portuguese)
  The HPLC Troubleshooter for Students of  Chromatographic Techniques 
  Chemistry Animations in Quicktime and Shockwave format from Oxford University 
  Structure based drug design at Birkbeck College 
  A superb list of chemical pointers in Sweden maintained by Knut Irgum  
  Network for Chemistry Teaching at Nottingham and York (UK) 
  NMR Data at Widener University 
  The Main Quad: Web Sites of Distinction 
  An Electronic Textbook on Chemometrics (Portuguese) 
  Physical Chemistry,  by Carl David 
  Asymmetric Synthesis: A Didactic Survey, by Carmen L—pez-Leonardo (Spanish) 
  Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion Theory,  by Mark Winter 
  Practical Excercises in Quantum Chemistry 
  Organic Chemistry Molecules and  Tutorials using Chime  by Albert Pratt
  Introductory computational physical chemistry and statistical mechanics  at Bishop University
  Mechanisms of Organometallic Transformations  
  Inorganic Reaction Mechanisms 1  
  Introduction to NonMetal Chemistry  
  Structure of Solids  
  Web Multimedia for Chemistry Education  
  Multiple Choice Questions in  Organic Chemistry 
   ModularCHEM Malathion/Medfly/Medicine Modules: 
	 
	   Modular CHEMConsortium  
	  Structures 
	  Resource and Topic Index 
	  MC 2  Bio-molecular Data Base: 
	  WEB-sters' Organic Chemistry: 
	   Malathion, Medflies and Medicines Organic Chemistry Teaching Module. L. Smith and R.J. Rusay.  
	 
   General Chemistry by John McBride 
   World Index: BioMolecular Tutorials in Chime by Subject 
   A compilation of solved and unsolved problems  in biosynthesis of natural Products 
   The Chemistry Place 
   MathCAD Tutorials for  Physical  Chemists 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Rated a top 5% Internet Site by  Point Survey : 
  
 
 
 
   
 
Rated 4-star by  Magellan : 
  
  
 (Search options) 
 
 
 
 
 Last updated: April 13, 1998 by Henry Rzepa.