How to Pass Chemistry         How to Pass Chemistry   by Dr. Brenna E. Lorenz Division of Natural Sciences University of Guam  Make sure you have the prerequisites!     For an introductorychemistry course, you need a good, solid, high school level of math proficiency.In particular, you should already know how to work with fractions, negativenumbers, exponents (including scientific notation), and logarithms, andhow to manipulate and solve algebraic equations.   Have a good attitude!   Recognize from the start that chemistryis a subject that requires a lot of time and work. Be committed to investingthe time and effort that the course demands. You have to be an active,aggressive student to do well in chemistry. You cannot afford to be passivein these courses.    Believe in yourself and your capabilities.Even though chemistry is difficult for many people, you can understandit if you work at it.    Decide that you will find somethingto enjoy about chemistry. It is easy to say that you hate chemistry, butif you make this choice, you will find it harder to study and attend class.Who wants to spend time with something they hate? There is something funand interesting in every subject if you allow yourself to see it. Treatchemistry problems as a challenge or a game; solve them as if they werea cross-word puzzle or some other activity you enjoy.    Regard chemistry lab as an opportunityrather than a chore. Lab is your chance to have hands-on experience withchemicals and equipment. In lab, you can see the stuff you heard aboutin class happening before your eyes. Because a chemistry lab is expensiveto build, maintain and operate, these labs may be a once-in-a-lifetimeopportunity for you to experience these things.    Remember that learning chemistry isyour own responsibility. The professor will help you out as much as possible,but the professor can't learn it for you. It's just like peeing. Someonecan show you to a toilet, but you have to pee for yourself.   Come to class!   Arrive on time and don't leave early.Don't miss class if you can possibly avoid it.    Sit as close to the front of the classroomas you can. Old high school habits may dictate that you sit in the backof the room so that the teacher won't catch you fooling around. But thisis college and you won't be fooling around. If you sit up front, you willsee better, hear better, and generally be more alert.    Ask questions if you don't understandwhat the professor just said, or if the professor is going too fast. Yourclassmates will not think you stupid; they will be glad you asked, becausethey probably didn't understand it either. Many professors will stop andask if anyone has any questions. When a professor does this, it is a cluethat the professor thinks that the material just covered was difficult.The professor is expecting students to have trouble with it. This is aninvitation from the professor to the students to go over the material again,or in a different way. If the professor gets no feedback at this point,he or she will proceed to the next topic whether you are ready or not.So if you don't understand, say so!    Take notes, lots of notes.    Come to class prepared. Always bringyour textbook, your periodic table, your calculator, and your molecularmodel kit if your class is using one.   Work the problems!   Paying attention in class is important,reading the book is important, but nothing is as important as working theproblems. Work as many problems as you can. Practice, practice, practice!THE NUMBER ONE REASON WHY STUDENTS FAIL CHEMISTRY IS THAT THEY DO NOT WORKENOUGH PROBLEMS.    When the professor is working problemson the board, you may be tempted to think, "Oh, that's easy. I understandthat. I don't need to do those problems." Don't be fooled! Watching theprofessor or your tutor or your friends work a problem is not the sameas doing it yourself. Simply watching someone else play the piano or usea typewriter or play tennis would not enable you to play the piano or typeor play tennis. You have to practice it yourself. Chemistry requires alot of practice. YOU HAVE TO DO IT YOURSELF.    Your textbook and study guide willshow you how to work problems step by step. If you can read through thesteps and understand them, that is a good start. But it is not a substitutefor doing the problems yourself.    After you have read the book and theexamples on how to work a kind of problem, try one yourself, without lookingat the book or study guide. After you have finished the problem, checkyourself with the study guide, but be careful not to peek at the answerto the next problem. Never look at the answer to a problem before you finishworking the problem. Make sure you understand what you did wrong with thefirst problem (if anything) before you start the next one of that type.Be very careful not to lean too heavily on the study guide. Make sure beforeyou're done that you can do a type of problem from beginning to end withouthaving to peek at the study guide along the way.    As you work the problem, have a clearidea of where you are going, what the goal of the problem is. ("I haveto figure out how many of these pills a patient needs.") List what youare given to start with. (Each pill contains 50 mg. of medication and thepatient needs 75 mg.) Clearly show each step of your calculations or thoughtprocesses. Label units. Then, when you study your work later, you willhave no trouble figuring out how or why you did what you did. If you needto show your work to someone else, to get help from the professor, forexample, the other person will be able to understand exactly what you did.    After you have figured out how to worka kind of problem, explain it to someone else. If you can explain it tosomeone else so that they understand it, you can feel confident that youreally do understand it yourself.    If you have trouble finding time towork problems, set up a schedule for yourself. You should set aside atleast one hour every day for working on chemistry. Write your study timeinto your weekly schedule as if it were another course.    THE NUMBER ONE REASON WHY STUDENTSFAIL CHEMISTRY IS THAT THEY DO NOT WORK ENOUGH PROBLEMS.   Make the most of labs   The purpose of labs is to give youhands-on practical experience with the concepts that you are learning inlecture. Make the most of the labs. Think about what you are doing. Thinkabout what is happening. It is very easy to think of a lab manual as acookbook, and many of them are written that way, but always think aboutthe meaning of the phenomena you are witnessing (a color change, a changein temperature etc.).    Read the lab ahead of time. Read thetheory and read the procedure. Anticipate what is going to happen as youcarry out the procedure. Then, when you actually do it, see if your predictionswere right.    Most instructors will require you toanswer and hand in the questions at the end of the lab. Resist the temptationto copy the answers from someone else. The questions are designed to helpyou understand the lab. They generally try to guide you into making connectionsbetween what you saw and did, and the theory behind the lab. You are cheatingyourself out of a valuable learning experience if you just copy someoneelse's answers. If you don't understand the labs, then you won't get muchout of them. If you do understand them, they should help you with the restof the course.   Get help!   Sometimes you will just plain get stuckand need help. Sources of help include: the professor, a tutor, lab teachingassistants, classmates, books in the library. Your professor has officehours. The office hours are specifically for students. Don't be afraidto come see your professor if you are having trouble.    When you come for help, have a specificproblem or list of problems. A professor can't help you much if you comein with something vague like, "I just don't understand this course" or"this chapter." The professor will be able to do much more for you if yousay, "I tried to work problem 3.2 and I keep getting an answer of 4.6 butmy study guide says that it's 194. Where am I going wrong?" Or "the booksays I have to take the square root of this but I don't understand why."Be as specific as you can! After the professor explains, ask if you cando another problem right there on the spot while the professor watches.As you do it, explain out loud what you are doing and why, so that theprofessor can either confirm your reasoning or correct you as you go along.    Don't be embarrassed about asking forhelp. Everyone needs help sometimes. Many people need a lot of help. It'ssmarter to get help when you need it than to try to do without it. Yourprofessor would much rather help you than flunk you. Professors have alot of respect for students who care enough about the course to get helpwhen they need it.    Get help as soon as you start havingtrouble with the material. If you wait until the last week of class, comeinto the professor's office and say, "I think I'm flunking your course.What should I do?", then it's too late.   Study effectively for tests!   The best way to study for the testsand quizzes is to work all the problems as described above, and to askfor help when you need it. Spread your studying out; do some every day.Don't expect to be able to learn it all the night before the exam.    Your professor may give frequent quizzes.The purposes of quizzes are many: they encourage attendance, they keepthe student from lagging behind (putting off all the studying until thenight before the exam), they give the student practice in working typesof problems, they give the student a preview of what will be on the exam,and they emphasize the kinds of problems the professor feels are important.Some students blow off quizzes because they don't usually count for manypoints. Don't do it! Not only do those points add up, but the quizzes areactually a valuable study guide.    Anticipate what will be on the exam.Notice what the professor spends time on in class. If the professor assignsspecific problems, make sure you know how to work every one of those problemsand then more. Make sure you know how to work every problem given on aquiz. If you miss a quiz problem, make sure you know what you did wrongso that you will do it right the next time. Some professors give out studyguides. If the study guide says that you need to know a specific concept,make sure that you do know it. Some professors give out practice testsor put old exams on reserve in the library. Make sure that you know howto do every one of the problems on these exams. Sometimes a professor willeven say, "This problem will be on the exam." If a professor says this,believe it! Know how to work that problem and that type of problem. Mostprofessors will come right out and tell you almost exactly what will beon the exam, except for the specific numbers or examples. Pay attention!    Know the vocabulary of chemistry. Inmany ways, learning chemistry is like learning another language. Make sureyou are so familiar with terms like "electronegative," "hydroxide," "cation"etc. that you don't have to spend time worrying about them during the test.If necessary, for example, when learning nomenclature, make flash cardsof vocabulary words.    Get into a study group with some ofyour classmates. It is very helpful to be able to talk and argue aboutthe material with other people. Make sure that you take an active rolein these discussions. Many people "study" by watching their friends workproblems. You will do much better if you are the one explaining the materialto them!    The night before the exam, go to bedat a reasonable hour and get a good night's sleep. DO NOT STAY UP ALL NIGHTSTUDYING or your brain will be pudding the next day. Eat a good breakfastbefore the exam and go easy on the caffeine.    Make sure you bring everything youare allowed to bring to the exam, like your calculator, for example. Ifyou have to borrow someone else's calculator, make sure you know how touse it.    When you get an exam back, make sureyou understand what you did wrong. You will need to know how to do it rightnext time. Because chemistry builds up from a base of knowledge, everythingyou learn at the beginning will be needed later for something more complicated.If you miss a concept on the first test, you will need to learn that conceptfor the next part of the course.    If you start out doing well at thebeginning of the semester, keep it up. Don't try to coast through on onegood grade. One A or B will not counterbalance a string of F's. The professorcannot grade you on what you are capable of doing, only on what you actuallydid.     DON'T FALL INTO THESE COMMONTRAPS  ? thinking that you don't needthe prerequisites; ? skipping class and getting thenotes from friends; ? showing up for class only on quizdays; ? showing up for the quiz and thenleaving; ? copying someone else's work; ? thinking that you can understandthe material without working lots of problems; ? putting off studying until thenight before the exam; ? disappearing from the class aftergetting one good grade; ? expecting to be able to catchup after missing much of the semester; ? expecting to be allowed to doan extra credit project to salvage a failing grade at the end of the semester; ? expecting the professor not tocount all the quizzes or homework you missed; ? expecting to pass even if youhave all failing grades.      Check out  SizzlingOrganic Chemistry Dramas ! Return to  Heptune'sJournal of Lore and Levity !       Published 12/15/99.        ANCIENT EGYPT     Akhenaten      Akhenaten's Family      Akhenaten's Affliction      The Amarna Webring        Webpage-en-Aten      Amarna Art      Amarna Royal Family       Megaera'sAmarna Art Gallery       JAZZ     Jazz Page      Jazz and BluesLyrics      Jazz and BluesWebring      Works of CabCalloway        Works of BlancheCalloway       Jazz Names             HUMOR     Star Tricked:the Next Perpetration      Ralph and Beulah'sCuisine      Sizzling OrganicChemistry Dramas      Facts on Farts        Science Jokesand Humor      Food and DrinkHumor Webring       Toho LightOpera      Scoop on Poop       GUAM     What's It Like onGuam?       Crittersof Guam      More Tales ofGuam      Even More Talesof Guam        Baby Names ofAsia and the Pacific       MicroscopicCritters of Guam      A Tragedy Toldin Names       Rocks andMinerals of Guam       NAMES     The Names andNaming Webring      Baby Names ofAsia and the Pacific      A Tragedy Toldin Names       Jazz Names        Baby NamesCentral      Names ofthe Month       NamePolls          MOVIES/TV     Malachi's MovieReviews      Betty Boop Cartoons      Betty Boop and theHays Act       Star Tricked:the Next Perpetration        Megaera's ActorReviews       Malachi'sMonster Interviews      Villains       Lost inSpace       MISC.     Link Encyclopedia      Homeschooling FAQs      Recommended Reading       DealingWith Tantrums        US PresidentialLists                  ANIMALS     Cats      Cuttlefish, theSentient Cephalopod      Critters of Guam      Microscopic Crittersof Guam        Invertebrate Ring       Komodo Dragons       Insects/Spiders       FruitBats       ART      Art Gallery I      Art Gallery II      Which of the Following?       Amarna Art        Megaera's AmarnaArt Gallery                SCIENCE     Pagan Volcano      Science Jokesand Humor       VolcanoPhotos       How toPass Chemistry        Sizzling OrganicChemistry Dramas      Microscopic Crittersof Guam             HOME      The Lorenz-PulteHome Page      About us!       Journalof Lore and Levity      E-mail us!        All contents copyright © 1998 Brenna Lorenz, MegaeraLorenz, Malachi Pulte. All Rights Reserved. Reproduction of any part of site without express permissionis strictly prohibited.    SignMy Guestbook    ViewMy Guestbook  Do you want to be informed by e-mail when we add newmaterial to our pages? If so, join our mailing list below!        Join our mailing list! Enter your email address below, then click the 'Join List' button:                     Poweredby ListBot        Visitors since 12/15/99:    FastCounter by bCentral      