SAACS@TU Welcomes You!     SAACS at Towson University                 Are you interested in Chemistry?  Then get involved in S.A.A.C.S. and the Chemistry Club!    Congratulations to Loren Fierstein   for having been selected as the recipient of the  Spring 2011 SAACS Scholarship!  We are currently accepting applications for a SINGLE $1000 Scholarship, that is to be awarded for the FULL Fall 2011 & Spring 2012 Acedemic Year. The deadline to apply has been extended to April 28, 2011. Applications are available on the Scholarship webpage, at the main Chemistry Office (sm543) and at the SAACS lounge (sm539a).         FAQ   SAACS. What is that????? Wanna find out???   Sure you do!!!   Click above to find out the FAQ about SAACS.   Links   We have put together a listing of useful Chemistry links. Click above to reach them.    Members   We have a diverse bunch of members. Majors are Chemistry, Biology, and Computer Science. You do not have to be a chemistry major to be in SAACS. Just be in interested in chemistry.  Goggle and Notebook Sales  Notebooks are on sale for $11.00.  There are two types of goggles for sale: New and used.  New goggles $10.00, used goggles $5.00.  All are available in SM 539.   Activities   S.A.A.C.S. is involved in a variety of activities in the chemistry department and our community. Click above to find out more.   Green Chemistry   Take a moment and checkout S.A.A.C.S.' "Green Chemistry" webpage. We have Green Chemsitry links, information on Green Chemistry and information about ongoing Green Chemistry projects by our chapter.      225th National Meeting of the ACS in New Orleans  The officers of SAACS attended the national meeting to receive a "Commendable Chapter" award for the chapter activities of the 2001-2002 academic year.   Scholarship   Every year the Towson Chapter of S.A.A.C.S. gives a $500 scholarship to a Junior or Senior Chemistry Major. We would like to thank our alumni and professors who donate every year to the scholarship fund. We THANK YOU!!!    To find out how you can apply click the link above.     Photo Album      FAQ     Links     Activities    Members     Scholarship    Search