Science and Tutorials 
 
 
    

 
 
 The Wright Stuff 
 
    
      
        Home   
     
      
        [Science]   
     
      
        Gliding  
     
      
        Weather with 
        Attitude  
     
      
        Computing  
     
      
        Web Help  
     
      
        About Me  
     
   
 
 Science Section 
 For all the latest news from the world of science, you gotta 
  to visit my   
  Science News Page  
   
    
    
 
 Here are some chemistry tutorials I've written and some other excellent Internet 
  resources on Science. As the World Wide Web was invented by scientists, and 
  we scientists were among the first to use computers as part of our normal work, 
  there are a lot of good science sites out there. Note that the Weather with 
  Attitude pages are also a science section (on weather, strangely enough). Some 
  of these science links are to my other site,  www.sky-web.net . 
 My Tutorials 
 
    
      
       
          
           
             
                
                  Cell emfs tutorial  
                  Uses of the Transition 
                  Metals  
                  
                    Introduction to Oxidation 
                    and Reduction  
                     (a PowerPoint show) 
                 
               
                
                  Balancing 
                  Chemical Equations  
                  and 
                   worked 
                  examples   
                  
                    Properties of Transition Metals  
                    Transition Metal Catalysts  
                   Ê 
                 
                 Ê 
               
                
                  
                    How 
                    to calculate molecular masses (the RMM)   
                   Ê 
                 
                  
                    Le Chatelier's Principle  
                    Types 
                    of reaction  
                 
                  
                    Oxidation Numbers  
                    (a PowerPoint show) 
                 
               
                
                   Test 
                      yourself on calculating the RMM of compounds.  
                      Solutions 
                      and concentration calulations   
                  
                   Ê 
                    What are acids and bases?  
                    Strong and weak acids and bases  
                 
                  
                   The above PowerPoint shows take about 12-15 
                    seconds to load up, just be patient. And if you see a strange 
                    little f moving around, I don't know why either, it's not 
                    the nice little bullet marker I inserted! 
                 
               
                
                 
                   Chemistry crosswords 
                   A fun way to learn! 
                 
                  
                   -  Alkanes etc  and  Printable 
                    Alkanes  
                    -  The Elements  and  Printable 
                    Elements  
                    -  Chemistry Equipment  and 
                     Printable Equipment  
                    -  Classes of Compounds  and  Printable 
                    Classes  
                   The chemistry crosswords come in two forms - an interactive 
                    online version that requires Java to be installed on your 
                    computer, and a printable version. Just to be awkward, the 
                    printable ones are sometimes laid out slightly differently 
                    to the interactive ones. 
                 
               
             
           
         
       
     
      
   
    
      
   
 
 
  
  
 
 Need some  chemistry 
  glassware and equipment drawings ? A good selection are provided free at 
  the above site. Ideal for illustrating reports.  
  For special (free)  chemistry drawing software  try this 
  quick jump down the page. 
 Online Revision Sites 
 My tutorials will each be on a single subject, but some web sites offer a free 
  online general revision course. This list will change at times, as the owners 
  of these other sites tend to add and remove their short courses after a while. 
  Some require you to write your answers on paper then check them at the end of 
  the test. You will get the maximum benefit if you follow their instructions 
  and don't cheat. Who would you be cheating? Just yourself! 
  Revise GCSE at Encarta  
  - A Microsoft site using questions from the famous Letts Revision series (highly 
  recommended books). Covers Maths, Science, and English - i.e. the commonest 
  subjects taken. Hosted on the Encarta OnLine site, you don't need me to tell 
  you that there is a lot of other stuff to investigate here, but do the revision 
  you went there for first, otherwise you are wasting your time. 
  Freeserve 
  Education  has links to a couple of revision courses featuring science. They 
  seem to change the course suppliers every year, the current two are listed below. 
   
  WARNING Freeserve have updated their system, and the above page is currently 
  unavailable. I'll be watching to see if it re-appears - if not I'll delete this 
  link. But the links below still work okay. 
  SamLearning  is featured on the Freeserve 
  pages, and you can go there directly as well. They offer free trials of their 
  lessons and free revision tests are available. Covers GCSE and A level. They 
  would likeyou to pay to join a course, but try the free stuff. 
  Learn.co.uk  from the Guardian is the 
  second featured site at Freeserve. They too cover GCSE and A-level, and would 
  like you to pay to join a course, but there is a lot of free stuff to help you 
  along. 
  Creative-Chemistry  is a 
  site that takes a more relaxed, fun view to teaching chemistry, and is very 
  good for GCSE students, although the section for AS / A Level is good as well. 
  Lots of alternative ways to learn other than plain old lecturing, and some practice 
  revision tests. 
 Ê 
 Other Peoples' Science Sites 
 The first two sites here are very useful to students studying chemistry, and 
  once my own students had paid them a few visits as part of a particular lesson 
  on using the Internet, they started using them all the time for background information 
  on compounds. 
  Chemfinder.com  is an online 
  search engine dedicated to chemistry. Here you can enter a chemical name or 
  formula and it returns its general properties, and a list of other on-line databases 
  on physical and chemical properties, hazard warning sites, safety information, 
  and much much more. It should be your starting point to track down information 
  on any chemical. Forget the normal search engines, this is THE chemist's search 
  engine! I've used it since about 1995 or '96 and have never been disappointed 
  at the quality and quantity of information available. 
  Web Elements  - a database using the 
  familiar Periodic Table layout to return data on elements. Widely used, well 
  respected and highly rated, there is a lot of data available here. 
  The Wooden Periodic Table  
  is a bit different to the normal ones you see. 
  Singapore Science Centre  - a virtual 
  science centre run by the University of Singapore. Well worth a visit. Their 
   ScienceNet  section 
  allows you to ask questions which experts will try to answer. Note that there 
  is a similar UK based ScienceNet, but I wasn't as impressed by the UK one as 
  by the Singapore set-up. 
  Science - Engineering Tiimeline  
  - lists lots of well-known events in science, engineering and general history 
  in chronological order. See what else was happenning when Darwin put forward 
  the origin of the species, when ether was first used as an anesthetic, when 
  Billy the Kid shot Pat Garrett, and when tobacco (as snuff) was first linked 
  to cancer (1781 !!). 
 Ê 
   Chemistry Drawing Software 
  MDL 
  Downloads  - MDL produce some useful software for research chemists, and 
  generously make a few of their products freely available for educational and 
  home use. You can download their very useful ISIS Draw from here to draw 
  organic chemical structures to illustrate homework and the like. There is an 
  interesting free add-in which generates the correct IUPAC name for chemicals 
  drawn in ISIS Draw - I found a similar program about ten years ago, and due 
  to poor publicity it didn't do well and was then bought by aother company to 
  add into their product. You might also try their CHIME download which 
  is a browser add-in. It is used on many sites to provide 3-D views of molecular 
  structures and really improves what you see on some chemistry sites. (They say 
  the latest version is for Windows 2000 and Windows XP, but I downloaded it and 
  can run it under Windows 98se - I think they mean now upgraded to include Win 
  XP, not just Win XP.) For sample structures to look at try  Molecules  
  by Flick Coleman.  
  RasMol  is a free 
  3-D drawer and viewer for chemical structures. It has been around for years 
  and is very good. One of its main attractions (apart from being free) is that 
  there are large collections of molecule structures available free as well. Great 
  for teachers needing to illustrate structures. It was used as the basis of the 
  Chime browser plug-in mentioned earlier, but is a stand-alone program, not a 
  web program. 
  Protein Explorer  is the 
  next generation of RasMol, and is easier to use. Since 1999, the programmers 
  have concentrated on this improved version (now in V2) to the exclusion of RasMol. 
  Don't let the word protein worry you however, you are allowed to draw simple 
  things with it as well! 
  There are lots of tutorials and advice on these two useful tools at the above 
  sites.  
 For libraries of molecules for the above two programs try  Molecules 
  Galore!  at Univ. Mass.,  Molecular 
  Models  at Okanagan,  another Okanagan college page and the  Molecular 
  Library  at MathMol. You can also try a web search on Rasmol and a chemical's 
  name to find structures for individual compounds. 
  ACDLabs  has several free downloads 
  available, including their  ChemSketch 
  12.0  (which has the ability to name compounds!) and some add-ins for ISIS/Draw 
  (see MDL Downloads, above). 
 Not all science is serious however, in fact science is great fun, as these 
  links below show. 
  Molecules 
  with Silly Names  details genuine chemicals with names that will make you 
  laugh. 
    
  Learn the awful truth about this chemical from the organisation dedicated to 
  revealing the facts and showing that the truth is out there. Somewhere. 
  The Journal of Unpublished 
  Chemistry  - you should have no problem in recognising why this stuff was 
  unpublished! 
 Ê 
  The 
  Origin of the Species  - This is an online text of the famous book by Charles 
  Darwin on the basic theory of evolution. There is a lot to read here, and it 
  is not all easy going either. But a book as important as this one has to get 
  a mention somewhere.