Organic Chemistry Help! Videos, Flashcards, Study Notes, eBooks, Tutorials & Reactions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 
 
     
            
     
     
            
     
     
            
     
     
            
     
       
 
 
     organic chemistry help 
 
 
      
 
 
      
 
 
      
 
 
        
 
 
        
 
 
        
 
 
        
 
 
     Learn the Tricks Quick 
     "86 Tricks to Ace Organic Chemistry": The e-book 
       
      
       
     Learn the top 86 organic chemistry test tricks that your professors won't tell you.  Not organic chemistry for dummies, but organic chemistry for everyone.  Highly rated on Amazon, ready for immediate download.   
       
     Only $5.99, to learn more and download instantly click here: 
      Organic Chemistry Book  
 
   
 
     Heavy Duty Help 
     Complete 6-Hour Organic Chemistry Course Video Review 
       
      
       
     Your entire o-chem course in one place.  Go at your own pace, learn it all, see problems, and get the secrets that your professors won't tell you.  Perfect tutorial for all students and ready for immediate download. 
        
     Only $8.99, to learn more and download instantly click here: 
      Organic Chemistry Videos  
 
 
     The Total Package 
     e-Book, 6-hour review video, AND 500+  talking electronic flashcards 
       
            
       
     THE fastest way to learn organic chemistry!  Read the book, see the videos, and hear/see the flashcards; proven to be the easiest way to ace your course.  Order together and save over 25% to get the grade you want now. 
       
     Only $17.99, to learn more and instantly download, click here 
      Organic chemistry review package    
 
 
     
     We all know you can't fight organic chemistry....but you can ace it. 
     
       
 
                  
 
     Package Deal: Order the book, video, and flashcards together and save over 25% --->  review package  
     Free study guide: Like us on Facebook and we'll send you a free study notes & guide --->  organic chemistry study guide  
     iPhone/iPod apps: Check out our  apps from the Apple App Store, a great free tutorial --->  organic chemistry iphone app  
     Free Test Bank: Over 50 practice exams ready for you anytime ---->   organic chemistry test bank  
     Organic reviews of gaming sites can be found at the  onlinecasinobluebook.com  
 
 
     Free Organic Chemistry Resources and Tutorials: 
     Please see the left column for all of our free resources. 
       
       
     Comics and Humor 
     Chris Harding makes shorts and            comics in his basement in Kansas City. Little else is known about Chris Harding.Some say he comes from Arizona. Others say he is a tall drink of water.  Check            him out at  The Chris Harding Animation Concern . 
       
       
     You enjoyed this class, so now what?? 
     If you enjoyed your organic chemistry class, you might want to consider     a way to continue the party. That way is to get a graduate degree in that     subject. Here are some of the benefits to it:           1) Recruiting trips: Rent the 80's hit movie Johnny Be Good. Your recruiting     trips to prospective graduate schools will not be quite that crazy, but each     school you are accepted to will fly you out for the weekend to wine and dine 
   you. This includes meeting the faculty & current graduate students, seeing the     campus, hearing about research that you might be interested in and seeing what     life as a grad student would be like. It is a great way to spend part of your     senior year and is the first step to picking the perfect graduate school for     you. It is also an amazing opportunity to talk to the graduate students that are     already there and find out how life at that school really is.          2) You get paid
to go to school: Almost every university that offers a graduate     degree in our favorite subject will pay you go to school there. No joke. In     exchange for teaching undergraduate classes and/or doing research in order to     obtain your degree, these schools will pay you a stipend. Generally, it is not     much money, but it will be enough for most of you to live on. Depending on the     school, this stipend can range from $15K to $35K/year and tuition is usually     covered in that (or is very cheap). Plus, if  you want a little extra money on the side, you can always tutor students at about $40/hr.Considering
that you are being paid to be a     student, this isn't such a bad deal.    think about that tutorial      3) You get to put off starting real life: If you get a masters degree, it will     take you 18 months to three years to complete. If you get a PhD, it will take     you between 4-6 years. This is all time in which you are still a college student     and can continue to party like it is 1999.          4) You will increase your earning potential for your entire career: With an     advanced degree on your resume, you can
demand higher salaries for your entire     working career.      5) You don't necessarily even need to become a chemist with your degree: A     sizable percentage of those who get advanced degrees never actually become bench     chemists, or even stay in the field. I know people that have become engineers,     pharmaceutical sales reps, medical examiners, and even FBI agents. The great     part about it is that you have flexibility and aren't pigeon-held into a chem     job.          Overall, more
education never hurts anyone, especially when someone else is     paying for you to do it. If you are even remotely interested in hearing more     about this, I would strongly suggest learning more about a graduate degree in     the sciences. For most schools, you can visit their websites and get more     information. If you decide to start the process toward going to graduate school,     you want to take the GRE exam sometime in your junior year and start applying in     the fall of your senior year. 
       
       
     Humor 
      
     
     
     
     
  
       
     Do radioactive cats have 18 half-lives?  Old chemists    don't die, they just fail to react. O-chem    is the study of carbon compounds.  Biology is the study of carbon compounds    that crawl. A smart man once told me when in doubt,    say that further reserach needs to be conducted.  Reactions.  Do you use the general organic    and biological chemistry, McMurry,  5th edition, Carey,  reactions,  or an             organic chemistry for dummies course help?       The
book is formerly known as             65 tricks to Ace Organic Chemistry,            "86 Tricks" is the updated version.     O-chem iphone and ipod apps are available        too,  just search for it in your itunes store or click up above.  Email        us if you have any suggestions for the website or products that might be helpful.         BTW, that testbank above is free and it is awesome.  We are always looking        to add more
exams, so if you have one, contact us and we will upload it to the database.  What a great place for an organic chemistry tutorial and study notes.  You need to get this.   
       
        
   
       
       
 

  
 
    
  
 
 
      
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
     Links to Friendslay 
      Laptop Insurance  
     t teaching certificate     
      General Chemistry Help     
      The e-book editor       
      film to DVD       
      Online Colleges in Florida  
 
  