Concise Chemistry? - Chemistry Portal for Busy Students?  

 

 

 
 

 
 
   
      
         
            
         
        
   
  
   


  
    

  
  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 Enter your search terms 
  
 Submit search form 
  
  







 
 Ê 
 
 
 
 
  
 web  
 
  
 www.concisechem.com  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 




  
  
  
  
  
   
      
         
            
               
                  
               
               
                  

       and      for latest updates on:  
- Chemistry & env chemistry. 
- Toxic chemicals. 
- Env policy & business. 
- Green science & living.    

   ----------------------------------   


   
   


        

   ----------------------------------   

    Shop GREEN!
      


   ----------------------------------   

    Concise Chemistry? ,   a highly anticipated and acclaimed chemistry book,   will publish in August 2010.   Reserve a copy now.   

   ----------------------------------   

   Read FREE sample pdf CHAPTERS from  Concise Chemistry? to review for your chemistry exams.     Chapter 1: Introduction to Chemistry   
 Chapter 8: Measurements & Calculations 

   

   ----------------------------------   

   Read FREE pdf concise CHAPTER SUMMARIES from  Concise Chemistry? to review for your chemistry exams.

  - Concise chapter summaries are one-of-a-kind and can't be found in any other book.    - Developed by Prof. Krasnic to provide a concise summary of a chapter through mapping of key concepts. 
  - New chapter summaries will be added as chapters get written.

    Chapter 1: Introduction to Chemistry 
    Chapter 2: Elements & Atoms 
   COMING NEXT! 
 Chapter 3: Quantum Theory & Electronic Structure of Atoms 
    Chapter 4: Periodic Properties of Elements 
    Chapter 5: Ions & Ionic Bonding 
    Chapter 6: Molecules & Covalent Bonding 
   Chapter 8: Measurements & Calculations 
    Chapter 21: Nuclear Chemistry 

   

   ----------------------------------   


                  
				    
               
              
               
                 Ê 
               
              
			
			
			
			
            
               
                  
                      
                        www.concisechem.com   
                          
                     
                  
               

			  
			  
     		  
			  
			  
			  
               
                  
                    
				
				
			
			
			
			
			
			
 
				   
				     
				 www.CONCISE CHEM.com  
				      Chemistry Portal for Busy Students?  
 
 
                    
					
					
					  www.concisechem.com  is a one-stop information & news portal on chemistry, environmental chemistry, toxic chemicals, and green living  for chemistry students, chemistry professors, chemistry enthusiasts and people concerned about health and the environment.  
					
					
					
					  Why www.concisechem.com?  

 
 Read  rave reviews  to find out what other students and professors are saying about  www.concisechem.com.   
  					 
					 
  www.concisechem.com  offers many outstanding resources on chemistry, environmental chemistry, toxic chemicals and green living. 

 
  Web links to all major publishersÕ websites on chemistry ,  giving students free and easy access to outstanding chemistry resources and  hundreds of practice problems. 

   Best-of-the-web  links on  chemistry ,  environmental chemistry ,  toxic chemicals ,   green science, business, policy, and living  and  other student interests . 

   Hand-picked lists of most authoritative books on  chemistry ,  environmental chemistry ,  toxic chemicals ,   green science, business, policy, and living , and  other student interests , powered by  Amazon .

     Outstanding  career resources  for future  chemists.     
                        
						
						 
						 www.concisechem.com  keeps you current with the latest news in chemistry, environmental chemistry, and toxic chemicals.  


 

  Concise Chemistry TUMBLR  is updated daily with high impact and relevant news in chemistry and environmental chemistry that you just have to know about, with archives that date back to  2007 .   

  Today's Top News  has daily news feeds on chemistry, environmental chemistry, toxic chemicals and green living. 

    Top Chemistry/Environmental Information & News Resources  has best-of-the-web news resources, including  events & conferences ,  US Government sector ,  government notices & regulations ,  US Environmental Protection Agency ,  civil society & business sectors ,  non-US Governments and Inter-Governmental Organizations ,  chemical & environmental information, news & blogs ,  chemical journals  and  chemical coverage in national news .   
		   			
			  			
				
   
     
   CONCISE CHEMISTRY? book  
  Learn More in Less Time?  
 
 


  Concise Chemistry? book is guaranteed to raise your grade on your next chemistry exam, whether it is college chemistry, GRE, AP, SAT II, Regents, or high school.    

                      Why Concise Chemistry??   
 
  
  Read  rave reviews  to find out what other students and professors are saying about  Concise Chemistry?.     
					  
					     Do you want to ace your next chemistry exam but just don't have enough time to study?   

  Read  FREE sample pdf CHAPTERS from Concise  Chemistryª , a highly anticipated and acclaimed chemistry book that will publish in 2009.    

 Read  FREE pdf concise CHAPTER SUMMARIES from Concise  Chemistryª , a one-of-a-kind way of summarizing chapters through mapping of key concepts.  This is a novel approach developed by Prof. Krasnic and can't be found in any other book.  
 

 
						
						 Do you want to be notified when  Concise Chemistry?  becomes available in print?  
						
						  Click on  book  for more information.   
		    
				
				
				
				
				
   
     
   CONCISE BOOKS PUBLISHING  
    Learn More in Less Time?  
 
 
                     
					  Do you want to know more about who we are?
  Click on  about us  for more information.   
					   
					     Do you have CHEMISTRY material that you would like to share with others or simply have comments?    Contact Prof. Krasnic at  proftk@concisechem.com  for more information.   

 Do you have COLLEGE material that you would like to share with others?
  Visit Concise Books Publishing? at  www.concisebooks.com  for more information.   
		    
				
				
				
				
				
				
				
				
				
				
					
					
				
					
					

                     
                    
               

              
          
			  
			   
                 Ê 
               
              




        
   
   
      
         
           
               Home  |  Book  |  Chapters  |  Links  |  Top News  |  About Us   
           
           
              Copyright ? 2007-2009 Concise Books Publishing LLC. All rights reserved.