Chemistry and New Zealand 


  
  
 
 

    
  
 
	
	 
		 
		   
		
		 
		 Home    Chemistry     New Zealand     Stain Removal     Our Store: Books & Stuff!     Site Map   
		 
		 
		 
		  
	 
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
		 
		 
	 
 
 
 

      
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

    

   


 




 
  
	 
        
 
   
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
       
     
   
   
    
   
   
    Custom Search
   
 
 
     
	 
	
	 
	  Allan & Helen
    Campbell  
led the most successful contract manufacturing Detergent
    and Sanitiser company in New Zealand. Recently retired, 
	they seized the opportunity to
    devote time to wide ranging interests, one of which is to share knowledge of  Detergent Chemistry  and  Chemistry 
    in general to students.
    
    
   
   
     
    
    
    
       
 While you're here cruising the  Chemistry
    Resources  and links, take a break and stop by the  New
    Zealand  pages to find out about the Kiwi bird, which is found only in New Zealand. Although primarily a bird of New
    Zealand?s native forests, kiwis also live in scrub and native grasslands. Because the
    kiwi is a semi-nocturnal, secretive bird, few New Zealanders have seen their national bird
    in the wild. Read about the  New Zealand Kiwi, our indigenous flightless bird . Have a look at the  Waikato
    Region  where this site was originally produced. Find out
    about the best  Skiing  and  Surfing  spots - you can learn our lingo
    from the  Kiwi Slang  page - find  Fast Facts  about our beautiful country -
    picture the  Volcanoes  and  Glaciers  - learn a little about
    the  Maori  of New Zealand -
    peruse the Country's  Wildlife 
    and endangered flora, learn and hear New Zealand's  National Anthem  - plus a whole lot
    more. 
   
	  
	
    
    
	
    
       
   
     The very popular  Stain Removal Guide 
     is here too! It offers
    practical, unbiased advice, using cleaning products that are quite readily available -
    plus the opportunity to buy the most popular Stain Removal Handbooks,
    compiled in association with amazon.com... It's all here, so sit back, kick your shoes off, and click your
    way around - but don't forget why you came here - because... 
     
	  
         
 
   
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
       
     
   
   
    
   
   
    Custom Search
   
 

	  

	  
   
  
 

 


  
  

           
 
	 
		 
		 
	 
	 
		  
	 
 
  
 
 
 

  ? HA Campbell 
1998-2011      
 Privacy Statement