Organic Chemistry Tutor | Alcohols, Alkanes, Alkenes, Alkynes, Arenes, Halogenated Derivatives & Phenols 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 
 
	  Organic Chemistry Tutor  
	 Organic Chemistry Books  |  Organic Chemistry Textbooks  |  Organic Chemistry Posters 
 

 
	 Menu 
	 
	È  Structure Of Organic Compounds   
	È  Isomerism Of Organic Compounds   
	È  Alkanes   
	È  Alkenes   
	È  Alkynes   
	È  Arenes   
	È  Alcohols   
	È  Phenols   
	È  Halogenated Derivatives   
	È  Amines   
	È  Carboxylic Acids   
	È  Glucides   
	È  Proteins   
	 
 

 
 

  
  

 
 Organic Chemistry Tutor 

 Organic chemistry is the science which presents the biggest impact on daily life both because of the variety of practical applications and the possibility of understanding phenomenons surrounding nature. Therefore, its study is absolutely necessary for understanding all the transformations the total amount of organic substances can suffer. 
 During the study of chemistry in school difficulties may be encountered between some chemical compounds, a fact which requires a big power of abstracting, comprehending, labor and last but not least, a very organized method of learning. 
 The content on this site is sorted according to the chemical properties of the organic compounds into eight sections accessible using the menu on the left. "Organic Chemistry Tutor"'s aim is to give a brief but comprehensible presentation of organic chemistry. Each section: alkanes, alkenes, alkynes, arenes, halogenated derivatives, alcohols and phenols, includes a general presentation of the subject followed by a list of physical and chemical properties the latter being pictured through general chemical reactions and concrete examples. 
 

 
 The quality of "Organic Chemistry Tutor" is granted, we hope, by its accessibility and simplicity: both experienced and less experienced users can use this site, given the fact that the presentation of organic chemistry notions is made in a very succinct and plain way. Also, the site can be looked upon as a very useful instrument of preparation in the sight of Baccalaureate and/or University admittance, where an organic chemistry test is expected. 
 Don't hesitate to contact us if you encounter any problems or if you wish to give us some suggestions and feedback. 
 
Enjoy the site! 
The "Organic Chemistry Tutor" Team 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
  

 
 

 


  
  

  
 Did you know that: 
 È pharmaceutics as an industry started in the 1890s when aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) was first produced by Bayer in Germany? 
 È at the beginning of the 19th century, chemists thought that compounds from living organisms were too complicated and were driven by "vitalism"? 
 È in organic chemistry, unlike inorganic chemistry, in order to properly classify a chemical compound you'll have to describe the relative position of atoms within the molecule? 
 È the discovery of petroleum and its separation according to boiling intervals gave birth to the  petrochemical industry and thus to rubbers, adhesives, plastics, additives etc.? 
 È biochemistry is a science studying the chemistry of living organisms? 
 È Othmer Zeidler first prepared DDT in his laboratory in 1874, even though its real strenghts as an insecticide were discovered much later? 
 È the carbon nanotubes are one of the strongest materials known? 
 
 
 
 
© 2006-2010  Organic Chemistry Tutor , all rights reserved. 
 About Us  |  Contact Us  |  Privacy Policy  |  Resources