Mac OS X Server 
	 
	 
	  
	 
	 
 
 
 
	  
	 
		
		 
			  
			 
				 
					   
				 
				 
					 Mac OS X Server 
					 

						  Groups  
						  Users  
						  Webmail  

					 
				 
			 
			  
		 
		
		
		 
			  
			 
				
				 
					  
					  
					  
				 
				
				  
				
				 
					 Welcome to Mac OS X Server 
					 
						 
							 

								 
									 This page is just a placeholder. To publish your site, place your HTML and image files in the following directory: 
									  /Library/WebServer/Documents/  
									 Be sure to name your main page "index.html" and it will become the default page for visitors. 
								 
								 
									 Additional resources 
									 For the latest information about Apple, Mac OS X Server, and other Apple server products, visit: 
									 
										  Apple  
										  Mac OS X Server  
									 
									 Detailed documentation on the Apache web server is available: 
									 
										 In the  Web Technologies Administration guide  
										 In the Mac OS X Server onscreen help 
										 In the  Apache.org  on-line documentation 
									 
									 If you have a question or encounter a problem with your server software you can: 
									 
										 Search the  AppleCare Knowledge Base  
										 Visit the  Apple Support Site  for an answer or a workaround. 
										 Join or search the  Apple mailing lists  for Mac OS X Server, web development, or QuickTime Streaming Server. 
									 
								 

							 
							 
								 

									 Group Wikis and Blogs 
									 Getting status... 
									 Group Wikis and Blogs are currently disabled. Use Server Preferences or Server Admin to enable this service. 
									    
									
									 
										 The Groups wiki, blog, calendar, and mailing list archive make it easy for teams to create and distribute information through their own shared websites. Distribute files, publish podcasts, and share calendars right from your web browser, naturally, using formatting and commands you already know. 
										 Publish your own blog, with drag-and-drop ease, using the built-in professional templates. Keep your colleagues up-to-date with projects, the files you’re working on, and pictures or podcasts. Your searchable blog is the perfect place to store information for your team, or just for your own reference. 
									 

								 
							 
							  
						 
					 
				 
				
			 
			  
		 
		
		
		 
			  
			 
				 Copyright © 2004-2007 Apple Inc.  All Rights Reserved.