Science Facts  

  

 
 
 
 
 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
  
 
 

  


 
 
 
 

		
				
				
				
				 
			
				 
					  
					  
						  
					 	
					
					
					
				 
				
				  
		 
		 
  
			
				 
				
				 
				 
					  
				  

				 
					 Email Subscription 
					Facts sent direct to your inbox
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
				 
				
				 
					 Random Fact 
					   


 
				 
				 
		
				
		
				 
				 
				 More Cool Science Links 
				 If you own or run a science website then why not submit it to our teaching sites directory  here  
				 
				 
				  
						  
											
				
				 
				 
				
				

  
 
  
  


 
  
  


				

  
	 
		 
			
							
			 
			 	 
						  
						  RSS Feed Subscription  
				 
			 
			
			  Quick Facts 
				 
					  Animal Facts  
  Human Facts  
  Space Facts  
  Weather Facts  
				 
			 
			
			  Categories 
				 
						  Animals 
 
	  Dinosaurs 
 
	  Earth 
 
	  Nature 
 
	  Outer Space 
 
	  People 
 
	  Physics 
 
	  Technology 
 
	  Weather 
 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			    Other Sites 
				 
					  Dinosaur Facts  
  Dinosaurs  
  Discover Science  
  Global Warming Facts  
  Health Facts  
  How Long Does  
  Optical Illusions  
  Random Facts  
  Teacher Sites  
  Teaching English Jobs  
  Technology and Electronics  
  Texas Electricity  
  Tiger Facts  
  Top Teacher Sites  
				 
				
 
   pre lit christmas tree   
   Flowers & Roses   
   Masters Degree in Healthcare   
   Stanford University Owen Tripp   
   Antibodies   
 				
				
			 
			
			  Recent Articles 
			 
					  Deepest Lake In The World ?  
	  Where Did The Word Robot Come From ?  
	  What’s The Fastest Possible Speed ?  
	  The Difference Between Insects And Spiders ?  
	  How Heavy Is The Earth ?  
	  What’s A Google ?  
	  Which Is The Highest Waterfall In The World ?  
	  Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?  
	  How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?  
	  Grizzly Bear Facts  

			 
			 
			
			
			
						
		 
	 




	
	
	 
	
	
		 
			
		 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Deepest Lake In The World ?  
						 Lake Baikal (Baikal) in Siberia, Russia is the deepest lake in the world measuring 1620m deep at its deepest point. This makes it not only deep but also the oldest lake in the world estimated to be around 25 million years old. At over 636 kilometers long and 80 kilometers wide this fresh water lake [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Where Did The Word Robot Come From ?  
						 This is a question we get asked a lot so we thought we’d put people out of their misery. Firstly the word robot comes from the Czech word ‘robotnik‘ which means forced labour or even slave. Watching movies and reading various sci-fi novels of the past you’ll quickly see that robots have mostly always been portrayed as servents of humanity.  
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  What’s The Fastest Possible Speed ?  
						 Well imagine going 500,000 times faster than a concorde and you have a speed nearing 299,792,458 meters per second. This is the speed of light as it travels through a vaccum which it’s so fast that if you were able to move at this speed you could go around the earth 7 times in just 1 second, now that’s fast! 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  The Difference Between Insects And Spiders ?  
						 Despite the visual similarities between the two both are actually members of distinct families. Spiders are members of the Arachnid family whilst insects belong to the Insect family. So what makes the two families different ? 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  How Heavy Is The Earth ?  
						 Now despite science coming forward in leaps and bounds the simple question of how much the Earth weighs isn’t as straightforward as you might think. Certainly placing the earth onto a massive set of weighing scales isn’t an option. So how do we measure the total weight of the earth ? 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  What’s A Google ?  
						 When you hear the word Google the first image that comes to mind has to be the famous internet search engine but does the word actually mean anything ? Well the answer is a firm yes because it comes from the term “Googol” which represents a number (written as a 1 followed by 100 zeros). 
       
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Which Is The Highest Waterfall In The World ?  
						 The highest waterfall in the world is the Angel Falls in Venezuela. At a towering height of 979m did you know that each drop of water takes 14 seconds to fall from the top to the bottom. The waterfall which despite being known to the local indians for thousands of years was originally called the “Churun Meru”. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?  
						 Apart from snakes and insects the hippopotamus kills more people in Africa than any other! It’s a statistic which many find shocking especially because they’re not actually meat eaters. So what makes the hippo so dangerous ? Well to begin with they’re large, extremely bad tempered and surprisingly quick on both land and water. 
					 
					 
			 
				 
	
		 
			  « Older Articles  
			  
		 
		 
		
	
	 









	

	 

	 
			
							
			 
				  
				  
			 
			
			
			  Archives 
				 
					  July 2010  
	  June 2009  
	  October 2008  
	  September 2008  
	  July 2008  
	  June 2008  
	  May 2008  
	  March 2008  
	  February 2008  
	  January 2008  
	  December 2007  
	  October 2007  
	  September 2007  
	  August 2007  
	  July 2007  
	  June 2007  
				 
			 
				
		
		
		 
  

 

	 
    
    	  
    	  
    
     

	 
		 Science Facts  
		© 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		Part Of The  Cool Facts  Network