Weight Awareness - Health information, help, news, directory and community 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Home |
				 Advertise |
				 Site Map |
				 Contact Us      Join |
				 Sign In |
				 Tell a Friend |
				 Add to Favorites  
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Featured topics
 
    
 
 
  Home      Find a Professional      Topics      Community      News       
 
  
					  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Weight Awareness 
 
 
 Overweight Children 
 
 
 Fitness and Exercise 
 
 
 Nutrition 
 
 
 Diets 
 
 
 Medications and Alternatives 
 
 
 Weight Loss Surgery 
 
 
 Plastic Surgery 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  Forgot  
				       
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
					Your e-mail address:
				 
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
 
        
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
©2004 Weight Awareness All Rights Reserved
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
     Home  
   
 
    Tell a Friend 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
 
      
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
             Featured Story
                   Welcome to Weight Awareness      Nearly everybody in society is conscious of their weight at one time or another. For some, it is a daily struggle that is dealt with for weeks, months, years and even decades. This translates into a great deal of time and energy dedicated to one's appearance and health. Issues about weight are commonly presented in the press using newspapers, television, radio and the internet.   more >                                
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
             Editor's Picks
                   How do we protect ourselves and our children...      Who needs to have weight awareness?

Everybody does. By raising our children to appreciate life and have a healthy life style, everyone in society will benefit. 
            Carbohydrates and glucose in diet          How foods and hormones affect the b...          Dieting for weight loss means eat less...                      
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
             Reader Voted Popular Picks
                   Gastric bypass and other weight loss surgery choices                Biliopancreatic diversion bypass procedure with duodenal switch for weight loss acceleration      In this group of bariatric bypass procedures for weight loss acceleration, the digestive system organs' alterations are more involved. There is more ‘surgery' involved and with more things being performed during a bariatric surgery, there is a greater degree of difficulty.                       
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
                     Featured News    All news»                       Phelps' Calorie Count Contributes To Medal Count   [August 16, 2008] Media reports have said that Olympic champion Michael Phelps consumes as many as 12,000 calories in a day. Sports dietician Caroline Mandel says that's not unusual for a competitive swimmer. She talks about the eating habits of athletes.          Pregnant Women Who are Obese Linked with Greater Health Care Services Use   [June 20, 2008] Also have longer hospital stays          A New CDC Study Finds no Real Increase in Obesity Among Adults; But Levels Still High   [June 20, 2008] After a quarter century of increases, obesity prevalence has not measurably increased in the past few years but levels are still high          2007 NATIONAL PREVENTION AND HEALTH PROMOTION SUMMIT   [June 20, 2008] The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) will host the 2007 National Prevention and Health Promotion Summit: Creating a Culture of Wellness.                              
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
                     Live Events    All Live Events»                                                   Learn More About...                   NIH/NHLBI Aim for a healthy weight    CDC - Overweight and Obesity    U.S. Surgeon General’s Call to Action Overweight and Obesity in Adults, 2001    NIDDK - Understanding Adult Obesity    NHLBI - Obesity Education Initiative    President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports     North American Association for the Study of Obesity    American Academy of Pediatrics - Overweight and Obesity    WHO Obesity Information    U.S. Surgeon General’s Call to Action for Obesity Prevention and Treatment in Children                     
 
   
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
      
 
 
      
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
						Find medical articles or journals from over 14 million references
					 
 
  
 
						Click for Dictionary
					 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Copyright  |  Terms of Service  |  Privacy Policy  |  Contact Us  |  Advertising Policy  |  Editorial and Ethics Integrity  |  Site Map