Weight Loss Management, weight loss diets, weight loss plans - lifeclinic.com 
 
 

 



 
  

  


  
  


 


 
   
     
      

     
    
      
	
      
       
 


 
   
                  
   
   
      
   
 
 
   
     
       
        
         
            
           Key Word Search 
         
         
            
                
         
       
         
            
         
         
            
            
         
         
            
            Nutrition Center  
              
         
         
            
            Fitness Center  
              
         
         
            
            Weight Management Center  
              
         
         
            
            
         
         
            
            My Health Record  
         
         
            
            
         
         
            
            FREE Blood Pressure Health Station Locator  
         
        
         
            
            
         
         
            
            Locate a Dealer  
         
         
            
            
         
         
            
           Resources 
         
        
         
            
            
            Cookbook  
         
         
            
            
            Hypertension Dictionary  
         
         
            
            
            Health News  
         
         
            
            
            Reminders  
         
         
            
            
            My Saved Articles  
         
 
         
            
            
            Links  
         
         
            
            
            Nutrition Fitness Site Map  
         
         
            
            
         
         
            
            About Us  
         
         
            
            
            Contact Us  
         
         
            
            
            Press Releases  
         
         
            
            
            Advertising  
         
        
         
            
            
         
         
            
            Terms of Use  
         
         
            
            Privacy Policy  
         
         
            
         
         
            
           
						 
           
         
         
            
            
            
            
         
       
     
      
     




 
    
 Nutrition & Fitness Home :   Nutrition Center  |
 Fitness Center  |
Weight Management Center 
 
  
 
 
 Weight Loss Management Center 

 


Weight loss and Americans. The two go together like apple pie and ice cream. 
You may need to lose weight but not know how to go about it. Or, you have lost 
weight before only to gain it back. lifeclinic.com's weight management channel 
shows you how you can make lifestyle changes that will result in permanent weight loss.

 You'll learn how losing weight will reduce your risk for disease, how increasing your activity can affect your weight loss efforts and about behaviors that lead to weight loss success. There are tips for eating, shopping and increasing your activity level. If you want to select a weight loss program, lifeclinic gives you important consumer information to keep in mind before making a choice.

  
 
  
   
   
      Weight Management Center-At-A-Glance  
   
  
   
     Basics 
     Weight loss plan 
 Other Topics 
	 
   
      Introduction  
      Strategies  
  Holidays & Weight Management  
 
   

      Evaluating your weight  
      Food choices  
  Weight Management for Children  
   
   
      Benefits of weight loss  
      Exercise  
  Stress Eating  
   
   
      Psychological Aspects   
      Choosing a weight loss program  
   
   
       
   
   
      Tools
        
		 
                Select weight management tools
		 Learn about yourself
		 -Body mass Index
		 -Ideal body weight
		 Learn about your food
		 -Food pyramid
		 -Food label
		 Calorie calculators for:
		 -Daily activities
		 -Occupational activites 
		 -Gym Activities
		 -Sports Activities
		 Tracking Tools
		 -Nutrition & exercise tracking
		 -Weight tracking & charting 
		 
		 
     
 

 
  Related Weight Loss Articles 
 
  A Reminder About Portion Size 
  High-Protein Diets: A Bad Idea for Hypertensives 
  Criteria for High-Protein Diets 
  Vegetarian Diets Are Lower In Fat 
  AHA Warns Against High-Protein Diets 
  Positive Effects of a Low-Fat, High-Carbohydrate Diet 
  Overeating Doesn't Ease Stress 
  Winning Behaviors for Losing Weight 
  Herb Not Found to Be Effective in Treating Depression 
  Celebrate National Men's Health Week 
  Overweight Women on the Pill at Higher Risk for Becoming Pregnant 
  
 

  
 

  

   
       




 

  

   
   
	   PAGE OPTIONS  
  Bookmark  
  
  Printer Friendly Format  
  
  Email This Page 

    

      

   
 
	 
		CONTACT 
			
	 

 
	
 
  Technical Help   
 
  
 
 
 
 


       
      
      
     

       
         
            
         
         
           
            
            
           
         
         
            
         
         
           
            
            
           
         
       

     
   
   
      
   
   
  	 
  		 
     
   
   
  	 
  		 
     
  	 
			 
	
	As the world’s top supplier of  commercial blood pressure monitors  and  health management systems , Lifeclinic is committed to helping to improve the health and wellbeing of individuals across the globe. Active monitoring of blood pressure, heart rate, weight, body fat, body mass index (BMI) and blood oxygen levels when combined with proper  diet ,  nutrition  and  physical fitness  can help ensure a longer, more healthy lifestyle.
  
   	
 
© 2011 Sentry Health Monitors, Inc.

 

  	 
  	 
  		 