The Lose Weight Diet - FREE weight loss diet plan 
 
 

  
 

 

 


 

 
  

 



 

 
 The Lose Weight Diet  
 
 Phase 1:   Learn How To Lose Weight    

 Phase 2:   Create Your Weight Loss Diet Plan    
 Phase 3:   Continue Losing Weight And Keep It Off  
 


 
 Weight Loss Articles  
 
  Best Weight Loss Supplements  
  Weight Loss Tips  
  Lose Weight Fast  
  Six Pack Abs and a Flat Stomach  
  MORE...  
 


 
 Diet Articles  
 
  Healthy Diet Foods  
  Diet Plans Compared  
  Fad Diets  

  MORE...  
 

 
TLWD Blog 
 
     The Lose Weight Diet Blog  
 

 
About & Contact 

 
  About Me/This Site  
  Contact Me  
  Tell Your Friends!  
 

 
Download The Guide 
 
 
  The Ultimate Fat Loss Program  
 
 

 


 


    


 

 
  
  
 


 
 



 

 Welcome to the official home of The Lose Weight Diet! 

 
  
 

 
The idea behind this completely free weight loss diet plan is quite simple... it's the ANTI-fad diet. It is the complete opposite of every borderline idiotic and completely unnecessary diet program in existence. It is based strictly on common sense and the simplest and healthiest way the human body was meant to lose weight. It is not based on fancy gimmicks and making sales. The Lose Weight Diet is free. There is nothing to buy or sign up for first. Every single piece of weight loss information you will need is here (free) for you to read, understand and put into effect. 
 


 Is The Lose Weight Diet for everyone? 


 
It's mainly for people who, ya know, want to lose weight. That's pretty much the only requirement here. Oh, and it's also for people who don't want to waste money. If you fit that description, The Lose Weight Diet is definitely for you.
 

 
In the shortest form I can explain it, The Lose Weight Diet is four things:
 

 1. Simple
 2. Safe
 3. Effective
 4. Free
 

 
If that sounds ideal to you, then sit back and relax. You've found the right place.
 


 What makes it so simple? 


 
The Lose Weight Diet is simple because it isn't based on a gimmick or a fad. Like I said, it is the anti-fad diet plan. It cuts right to the chase and eliminates all of the unnecessary tasks most commercial weight loss diet plans require you to do. After all, it's those unnecessary tasks that are supposed to make their diet program stand out and appeal to you in the first place. Why? So they can make money. 
 

 
On the other hand, The Lose Weight Diet is all about facts and common sense. It's simply about what works and what doesn't. To sum it all up in one simple sentence, this weight loss plan revolves around reducing your total calorie intake by a small amount, and then just making sure the calories you do consume come in the form of a well-balanced diet consisting of good sources of protein, carbs and fat.
 

 
Basically, it's the practical type of diet most often recommended by doctors and experts who aren't trying to sell you something.
 


 Why is The Lose Weight Diet free? 


 
It's free because I am just like you. I'm not a personal trainer, or a nutritionist, or a doctor, or a fitness celebrity. I'm just a regular guy who's been into diet and exercise since 1999 and wants free truthful information about the things I'm interested in. 
 

 
That's why you're here, isn't it? 
 

 
Because you're interested in weight loss. Because you want to lose weight without handing over "3 easy payments of $19.95." Because you don't enjoy being sent from page to page of a web site only to end up at a paragraph telling you to "get your credit card ready" so you can "learn all of this and MORE in my weight loss book!" Because being constantly bombarded by hundreds of gimmicky fad diets and commercial weight loss plans gives you a headache. Yeah, I figured so. I feel exactly the same way. That's why The Lose Weight Diet is free.
 


 Who created The Lose Weight Diet? 


 
Your body did. Like I said, this weight loss plan is based solely on how the human body loses weight. It has always been around. It's as simple, safe and effective as any weight loss diet could possibly be. 
 

 
I know what you're thinking. If what I'm saying is true, why haven't you heard of it before? Simple... because it's never been sold to you. It's never even had a name! It's just how the human body was naturally designed to lose weight, and it's hard to sell a weight loss diet based on that alone. Not to mention, it's pretty hard to sell something that is free. 
 

 
And me... I have nothing to do with it. All I did was finally give it a catchy name. A phrase people can refer to it as. Something they can respond to their friends with when they ask how they lost weight. "I'm on The Lose Weight Diet." Before that we'd just have to describe what this diet plan is. Now it has a four word title. It just makes it sound more real and official in an industry where every other weight loss program has it's own fancy name to identify it by. 
 

 
The only other thing I did was give it this web site. The information about the type of diet The Lose Weight Diet is based on is already around. It's not new. I just wanted to give it sort of an official home. A place where people know to go to learn everything they need to know about it, for free. A place people can refer their friends to rather than giving them a name of a book to buy or a program to join. "Everything you need to know is at  www.TheLoseWeightDiet.com ." It only helps add to the simplicity of this weight loss plan.
 


 What's the deal with the name anyway? 


 
I came up with the name "The Lose Weight Diet" sort of as a joke. It's so damn literal. Weight loss diet plans like The "Atkins" Diet and The "Zone" Diet and The "South Beach" Diet make me laugh. Who cares about some Dr. Atkins guy or some zone or some beach? Cut through all of the useless marketing junk. Your goal is to lose weight, plain and simple. Thus... The "Lose Weight" Diet was born. Slightly funny and very literal. It's the anti-fad.
 


 Start NOW! 


 
Enough already. You've read more than enough information about The Lose Weight Diet to decide if it's right for you. If you don't think it is, fine. I don't mind. Feel free to try any of the hundreds of other weight loss plans around. Go buy their books and their products and their memberships. I honestly don't mind at all. In fact, I wish you the best of luck. 
 

 
However, if you feel The Lose Weight Diet is indeed right for you... let's get started. I have broken it all down into 3 phases. In order to fully understand and fully follow this weight loss plan effectively, you MUST read through each phase in order. Do not skip anything or jump ahead. Just sit back and relax. You're only 3 steps away from losing weight... for free. Start here:
 


 
 
 Phase 1: How To Lose Weight 
 
 


 
  
  
 


 

 


 


Copyright © 2006-Present, The Lose Weight Diet. All Rights Reserved.
 Email:  TheLoseWeightDiet@gmail.com  |  Home  |  Site Map  |  Terms Of Use