MSNucleus 
  
 
  
 

 
  
  
 
   
      
     
        
           Go To... 
           Home 
           General 
           Curriculum 
           Watersheds 
           Classes 
           Catalog 
           Contacts 
           Search... 
           
   
 
 
 
   
   
     
       
         K-12  
        Science Curriculum
         
        
        
            
     
   
   
 
 
   
   
     
       
   
       Access to the K-12 Integrating Science,
      Math, and Technology Reference Curriculum is FREE. 
      Educators or parents may use the copyrighted material in their classroom. 
      However, in return we would like to receive your email, so we can send you
      update alerts.   We will not provide this list to any other
      service.  You can unsubscribe at any time.  You can still
      access the material without giving us your email.  
       When you go to our home page, click on
      the I. Science MaTe Free Access symbol and enter over 23  years of research
      on how children learn science content.  
        
       This will give you access to both the elementary and secondary curriculum, over 6000 pages of reference material based on
      research with children.   
       If you would like to download the kits
      needed for each grade level,  click here 
      (2MB).  On our website under  Catalog, 
      you can view the materials by content.  These are not printable. Teachers
      or parents  may want to consider purchasing a
      copy of the material on CD if they have slow internet access.  It will allow easy use of the material
      in the classroom.   
       
   
       
      
       
    
     
    
     
            
              
               Free update 
              alerts 
                
               email address   
               Subscribe       Unsubscribe 
                
            
            
              
                
              Free Access    
      		   
      Enter Here  
              
             Storybooks, 
              daily lesson plans and much more... 
              ALL FREE 
            
            
              
                Elementary  
 
               Secondary      
            
     
 

      
      
       
     
   
   
 

   
     
     
       
         

  Click
  here if you would like to purchase a CD of the entire material. 
         
       
       
         

   
If you need any of the hands-on materials please look at our
online catalog. The complete curriculum is  available
for purchase online  along with a CD of the content at your fingertips.   We are a non-profit and all funds goes into the
many projects we coordinate.      Elementary   
Integratin g Science, 
 Math, and Technology (K-6)
(I.Science MaTe)  A
        complete science program for every week of a child's K-6
        experience.  Includes 3 lesson plans for 34 weeks.  Includes
        all science subjects weaved through Applied Science, Universe Cycle,
        Plate Tectonic Cycle, Rock Cycle, Water Cycle, and Life Cycle. 
        Hands-on materials available in our Catalog.  
  
  
       
 Secondary      
Integrating Science, Math, and Technology continues into
        secondary school.  These modules increase the knowledge from the
        Elementary I. Science MaTe.  Each module can be developed into a
        semester or year course depending on the instructor.  An electronic
        textbook for students is part of the program.  Hands-on activities
        are built from the textbook. Included are Biology, Earth Science, Physical Science,
        and Human Biology. 

     
 
    Need
K-12 curriculum customized for your school? 
   
    
 
  [Home]