Dragonfly 
 
 
 ??
   These Webpages are no longer maintained. We are keeping the pages here to preserve some of the early years of ProjectDragonfly, to honor the students who created the interactives in the early days of the Web, and because many of the activities are fun and people are still using them. For current Project Dragonfly work, go to: www.ProjectDragonfly.org  
   Thanks! 
   The ProjectDragonflyteam. 
 
 
 
   
      
         
         
       
       
        
      
    
     
       
         
            About Dragonfly 
            Awards 
            
            Help! 
            Links 
            
            
         
            Dragonfly TV 
            For Boys and Girls Clubs 
            For Teachers 
       
   
      
         
             
            Butterflies 
         
             
            Houses 
         
             
            Baseball in Space 
         
             
            Family Ties 
         
             
            Navigation 
         
             
            Space 
         
              
            Time 
         
             
            Water 
         
             
            People and Plants 
         
             
            Small & Tall 
         
             
            Earth Sounds 
         
             
            Using Tools 
         
             
            Hide & Seek 
         
             
            Webs of Life 
         
             
            Animal Talk 
         
             
            Ice & Snow 
         
             
            Skeletons 
         
             
            Flight 
         
             
            Trees & Seeds 
         
             
            Saving the Planet 
       
     
     
       
       
       Since its inception more than a decade ago, Project Dragonfly at Miami University has reached millions of children, parents, and educators worldwide through its many projects promoting voice, conservation, and global understanding.
       The project began in 1994 with funding from the  National Science Foundation  (NSF) and the launch of Dragonfly magazine. Created by a group of professors at  Miami’s School of Interdisciplinary Studies  and published by the  National Science Teachers Association , Dragonfly was the first national publication that placed kids' first-person scientific investigations alongside the discoveries of adult researchers, such as world-renowned primatologist Dr. Jane Goodall.
       Project Dragonfly pioneered the “real kids, real science” approach to learning, and in all of its print, web, and broadcast media projects continues to work toward inquiry-driven reform to increase public engagement in science and global understanding.
       Below, please find the archives of Dragonfly’s kid-friendly web pages – the scientific content of which is timeless. We hope you have fun taking a look!
       
         
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
         
        
       
         
           
              
           
         
           
       
       
         
          
                    
           
         This document was accessed 632,739 times between March 25, 1996 to May 28, 2002. 
          It has been accessed
          44,778
          on all servers. 
          This document was last modified on
          Tuesday, September 30, 2008 at 11:52:14
          . 
          Please send comments and suggestions to
            
           
          Email address protected by JavaScript. 
          Please enable JavaScript to cont  
       
   
      