Science Facts  » People 

  

 
 
 
 
 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
  
 
 

  


 
 
 
 

		
				
				
				
				 
			
				 
					  
					  
						  
					 	
					
					
					
				 
				
				  
		 
		 
  
			
				 
				
				 
				 
					  
				  

				 
					 Email Subscription 
					Facts sent direct to your inbox
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
				 
				
				 
					 Random Fact 
					   


 
				 
				 
		
				
		
				 
				 
				 More Cool Science Links 
				 If you own or run a science website then why not submit it to our teaching sites directory  here  
				 
				 
				  
						  
											
				
				 
				 
				
				

  
 
  
  


 
  
  


				

  
	 
		 
			
							
			 
			 	 
						  
						  RSS Feed Subscription  
				 
			 
			
			  Quick Facts 
				 
									 
			 
			
			  Categories 
				 
					 No categories 				 
			 
			
			
			
			    Other Sites 
				 
									 
								
				
			 
			
			  Recent Articles 
			 
				
			 
			 
			
			
			
						
		 
	 




	
	
	 
	
	
		 
			
		  People  
		 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Preserve Your Body In Ice Like Otzi  
						 Did you know that under extreme cold the human body can be preserved over 1000’s of years. A great example of this was during September 1991 when hikers in the Otztal Alps came across the body of a man who turned out to be over 5000 years old. He was preserved in an airtight pocket beneath a huge glacier. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  The Universal Man : Da Vinci  
						 Leonardo Da Vinci (1452-1519) born in Italy was known as the universal man because of his many and varied talents. Many seem to remember him more for his paintings such as the Mona Lisa and the portrait of the last supper which was the focus of the the recent hit book and movie the Da Vinci Code, but he was more [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  The Lost Inhabitants of Easter Island  
						 Easter Island which is also known as Rapa Nui is located between Chile and Tahiti. Not only is it one of the most isolated islands in the world but it represents an example of mass extinction and deforestation not found anywhere else in the world. The Easter Islanders are famous for their gigantic monoliths called Moai. These were constructed [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Night Blindness : Cause & Cure  
						 ???????? You’ve heard of night vision right ? but did you know of night blindness ? Yes that’s right night blindness is an illness which causes the affected to be completely blind in dim light and darkness. It’s caused by a dietary deficiency of vitamin A which causes the eye cells to dry out thus limiting [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Aborigines : The Indigenous Australian  
						 Did you know that the word “aboriginal” translates into the phrase “first known?” Aboriginal was first used in Greece and Italy but when stone tools in Australia were found to be 12,000 years old, the word “aborigine” was assigned to name the native people of Australia. Some archaeologists estimate that the aborigines in Australia have existed [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  The First Airplane : Wright Brothers  
						   Orville and Wilbur Wright are historical figures because of their pioneering work in aviation and the fact that they built and flew the first successful airplane, the Kitty Hawk. The amazing thing was that both Orville and Wilbur were not researchers or aeronautical engineers but simply mechanics who ran a bicycle shop in Daytona, [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Health Effects of Smoking  
						   Most of you already know the horrible health effects related to smoking but did you know that nearly 85% of all cases of lung cancer in the U.S. are caused by smoking and that all smokers have an increased chance of developing other deadly cancers such as leukemia, stomach, bladder, and kidney cancers. Apart from Cancer did you know that [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Pollution Problem: The Household  
						   The ever rising problem of pollution and greenhouse gases are not just generated from the exhaust of your automobile’s engine but from your house as well. Its a well known fact that more pollution is emitted from the average home compared to the average car.  In fact, the average home generates about 200,000 lbs or [...] 
					 
					 
			 
				 
	
		 
			  « Older Articles  
			  
		 
		 
		
	
	 









	

	 

	 
			
							
			 
				  
				  
			 
			
			
			  Archives 
				 
					  July 2010  
	  June 2009  
	  October 2008  
	  September 2008  
	  July 2008  
	  June 2008  
	  May 2008  
	  March 2008  
	  February 2008  
	  January 2008  
	  December 2007  
	  October 2007  
	  September 2007  
	  August 2007  
	  July 2007  
	  June 2007  
				 
			 
				
		
		
		 
  

 

	 
    
    	  
    	  
    
     

	 
		 Science Facts  
		© 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		Part Of The  Cool Facts  Network