Science Facts  » 2008 » June 

  

 
 
 
 
 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
  
 
 

  


 
 
 
 

		
				
				
				
				 
			
				 
					  
					  
						  
					 	
					
					
					
				 
				
				  
		 
		 
  
			
				 
				
				 
				 
					  
				  

				 
					 Email Subscription 
					Facts sent direct to your inbox
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
				 
				
				 
					 Random Fact 
					   


 
				 
				 
		
				
		
				 
				 
				 More Cool Science Links 
				 If you own or run a science website then why not submit it to our teaching sites directory  here  
				 
				 
				  
						  
											
				
				 
				 
				
				

  
 
  
  


 
  
  


				

  
	 
	  
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  The Kangaroo Hop  
						   Did you know that the kangaroo is the only large animal that uses hopping as a form of movement. In fact the kangaroo hops so efficiently that it can easily hop at speeds of around 25mph for distances up to  2km and over short distances can hit speeds as high as 40-45mph. Despite the kangaroo having such a fast and [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  The Universal Man : Da Vinci  
						 Leonardo Da Vinci (1452-1519) born in Italy was known as the universal man because of his many and varied talents. Many seem to remember him more for his paintings such as the Mona Lisa and the portrait of the last supper which was the focus of the the recent hit book and movie the Da Vinci Code, but he was more [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Water Can Crack Metal  
						   Did you know that water can expand in volume by around 1/9th of its total composition. This means that when frozen it occupies more space than when in liquid form. The above phenomena is very common in houses where water pipes burst over the winter due to ice forming in the pipes. The pipes [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Global Warming Is Real  
						   The arctic ice is receding and global warming is no longer a theory but a reality. Scientists predict that by the year 2100, the average surface temperature will jump up by 6 degrees Fahrenheit. Nighttime temperatures will be higher and there will be hotter days. Since air temperature is a powerful component of climate, [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  The Lost Inhabitants of Easter Island  
						 Easter Island which is also known as Rapa Nui is located between Chile and Tahiti. Not only is it one of the most isolated islands in the world but it represents an example of mass extinction and deforestation not found anywhere else in the world. The Easter Islanders are famous for their gigantic monoliths called Moai. These were constructed [...] 
					 
					 
			 
				 
		 
			  
			  
		 
		
	 
	
	 
	
			
	 

 
		 
			
							
			 
			 	 
						  
						  RSS Feed Subscription  
				 
			 
			
			  Quick Facts 
				 
					  Animal Facts  
  Human Facts  
  Space Facts  
  Weather Facts  
				 
			 
			
			  Categories 
				 
						  Animals 
 
	  Dinosaurs 
 
	  Earth 
 
	  Nature 
 
	  Outer Space 
 
	  People 
 
	  Physics 
 
	  Technology 
 
	  Weather 
 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			    Other Sites 
				 
					  Dinosaur Facts  
  Dinosaurs  
  Discover Science  
  Global Warming Facts  
  Health Facts  
  How Long Does  
  Optical Illusions  
  Random Facts  
  Teacher Sites  
  Teaching English Jobs  
  Technology and Electronics  
  Texas Electricity  
  Tiger Facts  
  Top Teacher Sites  
				 
								
				
			 
			
			  Recent Articles 
			 
					  Deepest Lake In The World ?  
	  Where Did The Word Robot Come From ?  
	  What’s The Fastest Possible Speed ?  
	  The Difference Between Insects And Spiders ?  
	  How Heavy Is The Earth ?  
	  What’s A Google ?  
	  Which Is The Highest Waterfall In The World ?  
	  Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?  
	  How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?  
	  Grizzly Bear Facts  

			 
			 
			
			
			
						
		 
	 


 

	 
			
							
			 
				  
				  
			 
			
			
			  Archives 
				 
					  July 2010  
	  June 2009  
	  October 2008  
	  September 2008  
	  July 2008  
	  June 2008  
	  May 2008  
	  March 2008  
	  February 2008  
	  January 2008  
	  December 2007  
	  October 2007  
	  September 2007  
	  August 2007  
	  July 2007  
	  June 2007  
				 
			 
				
		
		
		 
  

 

	 
    
    	  
    	  
    
     

	 
		 Science Facts  
		© 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		Part Of The  Cool Facts  Network