Science Facts  » What’s A Google ? 

  

 
 
 
 
 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  


 
 
 
 

		
				
				
				
				 
			
				 
					  
					  
						  
					 	
					
					
					
				 
				
				  
		 
		 
  
			
				 
				
				 
				 
					  
				  

				 
					 Email Subscription 
					Facts sent direct to your inbox
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
				 
				
				 
					 Random Fact 
					   


 
				 
				 
		
				
		
				 
				 
				 More Cool Science Links 
				 If you own or run a science website then why not submit it to our teaching sites directory  here  
				 
				 
				  
						  
											
				
				 
				 
				
				

  
 
  
  


 
  
  


				

  

 
		 
			
							
			 
			 	 
						  
						  RSS Feed Subscription  
				 
			 
			
			  Quick Facts 
				 
					  Animal Facts  
  Human Facts  
  Space Facts  
  Weather Facts  
				 
			 
			
			  Categories 
				 
						  Animals 
 
	  Dinosaurs 
 
	  Earth 
 
	  Nature 
 
	  Outer Space 
 
	  People 
 
	  Physics 
 
	  Technology 
 
	  Weather 
 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			    Other Sites 
				 
					  Dinosaur Facts  
  Dinosaurs  
  Discover Science  
  Global Warming Facts  
  Health Facts  
  How Long Does  
  Optical Illusions  
  Random Facts  
  Teacher Sites  
  Teaching English Jobs  
  Technology and Electronics  
  Texas Electricity  
  Tiger Facts  
  Top Teacher Sites  
				 
								
				
			 
			
			  Recent Articles 
			 
					  Deepest Lake In The World ?  
	  Where Did The Word Robot Come From ?  
	  What’s The Fastest Possible Speed ?  
	  The Difference Between Insects And Spiders ?  
	  How Heavy Is The Earth ?  
	  What’s A Google ?  
	  Which Is The Highest Waterfall In The World ?  
	  Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?  
	  How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?  
	  Grizzly Bear Facts  

			 
			 
			
			
			
						
		 
	 


	 
				
  		
			 
			
				 Home ›› Technology ››What’s A Google ?				
			 
				
			
			 
			 
			 
			 What’s A Google ? 
			 Posted By  Zoe Delphy  On June 18, 2009 		
			 
							
				 
				
										
				
					
									 
				
				 
				
												  
							  
										 
				 
			
				 When you hear the word Google the first image that comes to mind has to be the famous internet search engine but does the word actually mean anything ? Well the answer is a firm yes because it comes from the term “Googol” which represents a number (written as a 1 followed by 100 zeros) so large that it’s actually larger than the total number of atoms in the known universe. 
 As you might imagine the number is rarely used except maybe in theoretical and computational calculations, however the big question is whether a number bigger than a Googol exists ? Well funnily enough there is and it’s called a googolplex which would be a number 1 followed by, wait for it not one thousand zeros, not even one million zeros but a googol zeroes.  
 Getting confused ? Well you should be because this number is so large that it’s almost impossible to imagine and also impossible to write because doing so would require more space than the known universe provides. Absolutely mind boggling don’t you think! 
 Lastly for those of you that are interested in where this term actually came from, well it was popularized in the 1940?s by the american mathematician Edward Kasner who created it as a useful number when comparing unimaginably large numbers with infinity. Oh and the actual term “googol” was coined by his then 9 year old nephew Milton Sirotta, not bad for a 9 year old! 
                
              
				
				 
				  
				  
				
				 
	
							 
			 
			 
			
			


	
	 15 Responses to “What’s A Google ?”  
	

	 

	
		 
			 
			akshaya  

						  

			
			 very nice but r these the only facts on the website 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 dylan john howell   

						  

			
			 this is mind blowing i can`t get me head around it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Someone that went to High School  

						  

			
			 Where did you get the idea that there is only one Googol atoms in the universe?! In a single gram of Hydrogen there is about 6.08 x 10^23 atoms. IN A SINGLE GRAM. In one litre of water there would be far more than a Googol of atoms. Then let’s not get into the fact that a single middle sized star (such as our sun) has around 2 x 10^30 kg of Hydrogen. And the largest star in the known universe, VY Canis Majoris, has over 25 solar masses (ie at least 25 times as much Hydrogen) and would reach out past saturn if it was put in place of our Sun. I think that there might be a bit more than a Googol of atoms in the known universe 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			U.S. Soldier  

						  

			
			 so is the googolplex theoretically a number one followed by googol times itself? 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Sarang  

						  

			
			 WOW its mind Boggling. 
Great information. 
GOOD 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 gezahegn   

						  

			
			 good info 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			computer  

						  

			
			 couldny you write it on a computer 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Alankar   

						  

			
			 Now i m going to calculate exact opposite of it.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			googlyeyes  

						  

			
			 cooll….i never knew this….good info 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			coolDude  

						  

			
			 a googol? 
Is that how many soldiers went to iraq? 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			James  

						  

			
			 I reckon using copy+paste, a googolplex of any character you choose could be achievable fairly easy using notepad. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			vishal  

						  

			
			 wow.gud info….. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			kiran  

						  

			
			 its amazing 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Jay  

						  

			
			 How about a number written as 1 followed by a googolplex 0?s. 
I think that the day a scientist attempts to input that number into a computer, the end of the world will occur. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			john  

						  

			
			 if you people find this amazing, i find out what a graham’s number is…….. you will be amazed 
			 
		 

	
	
	 

 



 Leave a Comment 


 


  
 Name (required)  

  
 Mail (Not Published)(required)  

  
 Website  




    

  
 
 
   
 


				
	 
	
 

	 
			
							
			 
				  
				  
			 
			
			
			  Archives 
				 
					  July 2010  
	  June 2009  
	  October 2008  
	  September 2008  
	  July 2008  
	  June 2008  
	  May 2008  
	  March 2008  
	  February 2008  
	  January 2008  
	  December 2007  
	  October 2007  
	  September 2007  
	  August 2007  
	  July 2007  
	  June 2007  
				 
			 
				
		
		
		 
 

 


 

	 
    
    	  
    	  
    
     

	 
		 Science Facts  
		© 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		Part Of The  Cool Facts  Network