Science Facts  » 2007 » June 

  

 
 
 
 
 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
  
 
 

  


 
 
 
 

		
				
				
				
				 
			
				 
					  
					  
						  
					 	
					
					
					
				 
				
				  
		 
		 
  
			
				 
				
				 
				 
					  
				  

				 
					 Email Subscription 
					Facts sent direct to your inbox
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
				 
				
				 
					 Random Fact 
					   


 
				 
				 
		
				
		
				 
				 
				 More Cool Science Links 
				 If you own or run a science website then why not submit it to our teaching sites directory  here  
				 
				 
				  
						  
											
				
				 
				 
				
				

  
 
  
  


 
  
  


				

  
	 
	  
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Lightning Takes the Distance  
						   Lightning detection systems have discovered that lightning can travel a distance of 60 miles or more. Vertical lightning strikes can stretch a distance between 5 to 10 miles while Horizontal lightning strikes can be 60 miles or more. The longest lightning bolts start at the beginning of a squall line and travel horizontally behind the [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Cockroaches Can Survive Headless!  
						   A cockroach can survive for about a week or so without its head! If a cockroach becomes decapitated, the wound on their neck would clot and seal off. If this happens they will no longer be able to eat food, but insects can survive for weeks on only one meal.  Without a brain, cockroaches can still [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Marvel in the Sky: Halley’s Comet  
						 Halley’s Comet appears every 75 to 76 years.  It has had a recorded appearance since at least 240 BC. The last time Halley’s Comet crossed our planet’s sky was in 1986. Sometimes referred to as Comet Halley, it was formed 4.5 billion years ago. Halley’s Comet was named after Edmund Halley who predicted the next time [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Everyone Was Once Colorblind  
						 One out of every hundred American citizens is color blind. But did you know that everyone is color blind at one point in their life.  As a newborn until about six to eight months old, babies are in a state of being colorblind because their cone cells have not developed yet. Many people have a [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Destruction Caused By Lightning  
						 Lightning sets about 10,000 forest fires every year in the United States. These fires begin when lightning strikes dry “fuel”. The dry fuel can be dry grass, shrubs, leaves, branches, and brush among others. During the dry season, these fires will rage continuously feeding on everything in sight. This high volume of destruction causes approximately [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Hair Loss – It Happens to Everyone  
						 On average, a person loses 40-100 strands of hair per day. Yes, both men and women are constantly losing hair whether they realize it or not. In comparison to the amount of hair lost daily, the average head contains 100,000 strands of hair. This is just part of the hair growth cycle. On the other [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Moons Even Orbit Asteroids  
						 Some large asteroids in outer space even have their own moon. This surprising feature of asteroids was first discovered orbiting around the asteroid, Ida. Ida’s moon, named Dactyl, roughly measures 0.75 x 0.87 x 1.0 miles. It is estimated between 10-30% of all asteroids have their own moon. To learn more facts about outer space, please visit [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Spider Silk Used In Guns?  
						 The ‘crosshairs’ of gun sights were made of spider web filaments until the 1960?s. History has shown that humans have made good use of spider web silk in the past. One of these uses of silk was for creating the crosshairs of scopes used in microscopes, telescopes, bomb targeting systems and guns. The properties of [...] 
					 
					 
			 
				 
		 
			  « Older Articles  
			  
		 
		
	 
	
	 
	
			
	 

 
		 
			
							
			 
			 	 
						  
						  RSS Feed Subscription  
				 
			 
			
			  Quick Facts 
				 
					  Animal Facts  
  Human Facts  
  Space Facts  
  Weather Facts  
				 
			 
			
			  Categories 
				 
						  Animals 
 
	  Dinosaurs 
 
	  Earth 
 
	  Nature 
 
	  Outer Space 
 
	  People 
 
	  Physics 
 
	  Technology 
 
	  Weather 
 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			    Other Sites 
				 
					  Dinosaur Facts  
  Dinosaurs  
  Discover Science  
  Global Warming Facts  
  Health Facts  
  How Long Does  
  Optical Illusions  
  Random Facts  
  Teacher Sites  
  Teaching English Jobs  
  Technology and Electronics  
  Texas Electricity  
  Tiger Facts  
  Top Teacher Sites  
				 
								
				
			 
			
			  Recent Articles 
			 
					  Deepest Lake In The World ?  
	  Where Did The Word Robot Come From ?  
	  What’s The Fastest Possible Speed ?  
	  The Difference Between Insects And Spiders ?  
	  How Heavy Is The Earth ?  
	  What’s A Google ?  
	  Which Is The Highest Waterfall In The World ?  
	  Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?  
	  How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?  
	  Grizzly Bear Facts  

			 
			 
			
			
			
						
		 
	 


 

	 
			
							
			 
				  
				  
			 
			
			
			  Archives 
				 
					  July 2010  
	  June 2009  
	  October 2008  
	  September 2008  
	  July 2008  
	  June 2008  
	  May 2008  
	  March 2008  
	  February 2008  
	  January 2008  
	  December 2007  
	  October 2007  
	  September 2007  
	  August 2007  
	  July 2007  
	  June 2007  
				 
			 
				
		
		
		 
  

 

	 
    
    	  
    	  
    
     

	 
		 Science Facts  
		© 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		Part Of The  Cool Facts  Network