Dinosaur Facts -  

  

 
 
 
 
 

	 
	 
 
  
 
 

	
	  


 


  

 
 
 
 
		 
				
		 
			 
				  Home  
				  About  
				  Learning Resources  
				  Directory  
				  Contact  
			 	
		 
		  
		 
		 
  
		 
		
		    
	
		
		

  
	 
	
	  Recent Articles  
	 

			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Dinosaur Coloring Pages  
						 It’s been a while since we released any new learning resources but here’s 10 awesome dinosaur coloring pages for your kids and students to enjoy. These are free to use for educational purposes. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Supersaurus  
						 The Supersaurus meaning ’super lizard’ was discovered in Colorado in the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation in 1972, and was officially named by Jim Jensen the Supersaurus vivianae in 1985. A member of the Diplodocid family these sauropods were huge. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Giganotosaurus  
						 The Giganotosaurus existed during the Turonian stage of the late cretaceous period about 90 million years ago. It was first discovered in 1995 in the Argentinean region of Patagonia at the Rio Limay Formation by Ruben Carolini. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Tyrannosaurus Rex  
						 The Tyrannosaurus or T. Rex existed in the late cretaceous period some 65 million years ago. A carnivorous dinosaur and an extremely popular icon in todays movie culture this dinosaur is probably one of the most talked and read about dinosaurs ever to have existed. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Eoraptor  
						 The Eoraptor existed during the early Triassic period some 228 million years ago and is considered to be one of the predecessors of all latter day dinosaurs. Discovered in the Ischigualasto formation of Argentina in 1991, its near complete skeleton was an eye opener for scientists. 
					 
					 
			 
				 
		 
		
		  
					  
		 
		
		
		 
Page 1 of 31 2  3  »  
		
		
		
		 


	
			
 

 
		 
			
						
			 
            
            	  Sponsored Links  
            
				 
					
                    
						
                         
                        
						  
						  
                        
                         
                  
				 
                
               
			 
			
							
			   Find By Habitat  
				 
					  On The Ground  
					  Under Water  
					  In The Air  
				 
			 
			
			   Find By Dietary Type  
				 
					  Herbivores  
					  Carnivores  
					  Omnivores  
				 
			 
			
			   Related Subjects  
				 
					  Prehistoric Timelines  
					  Fossils & Archaeology  
					  Prehistoric Groups  
					  Prehistoric Earth  
					  Prehistoric News  
				 
			 
			
			
			
			   Cool Resources  
				 
					  Learning Resources  
					  Teaching Resources  
					  Pictures  
					  Videos  
				 
			 		
		

						     Friends  
				 
					  Dinosaur Facts  
  Dinosaur Pictures  
  Dinosaurs  
  How Long Does ?  
  Science Facts  
  Sites For Teachers  
  Teacher Sites  
					   jenzabar software   
				  
						
				
			
			
			
						
		 
	 


 
 
 

	 
            
    
    
     

	 
		 Dinosaur Facts  
		© 2007 - 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		 Knowledge & Facts  Network