Science Facts  

  

 
 
 
 
 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
  
 
 

  


 
 
 
 

		
				
				
				
				 
			
				 
					  
					  
						  
					 	
					
					
					
				 
				
				  
		 
		 
  
			
				 
				
				 
				 
					  
				  

				 
					 Email Subscription 
					Facts sent direct to your inbox
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
				 
				
				 
					 Random Fact 
					   


 
				 
				 
		
				
		
				 
				 
				 More Cool Science Links 
				 If you own or run a science website then why not submit it to our teaching sites directory  here  
				 
				 
				  
						  
											
				
				 
				 
				
				

  
 
  
  


 
  
  


				

  
	 
		 
			
							
			 
			 	 
						  
						  RSS Feed Subscription  
				 
			 
			
			  Quick Facts 
				 
					  Animal Facts  
  Human Facts  
  Space Facts  
  Weather Facts  
				 
			 
			
			  Categories 
				 
						  Animals 
 
	  Dinosaurs 
 
	  Earth 
 
	  Nature 
 
	  Outer Space 
 
	  People 
 
	  Physics 
 
	  Technology 
 
	  Weather 
 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			    Other Sites 
				 
					  Dinosaur Facts  
  Dinosaurs  
  Discover Science  
  Global Warming Facts  
  Health Facts  
  How Long Does  
  Optical Illusions  
  Random Facts  
  Teacher Sites  
  Teaching English Jobs  
  Technology and Electronics  
  Texas Electricity  
  Tiger Facts  
  Top Teacher Sites  
				 
				
 
   pre lit christmas tree   
   Flowers & Roses   
   Masters Degree in Healthcare   
   Stanford University Owen Tripp   
   Antibodies   
 				
				
			 
			
			  Recent Articles 
			 
					  Deepest Lake In The World ?  
	  Where Did The Word Robot Come From ?  
	  What’s The Fastest Possible Speed ?  
	  The Difference Between Insects And Spiders ?  
	  How Heavy Is The Earth ?  
	  What’s A Google ?  
	  Which Is The Highest Waterfall In The World ?  
	  Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?  
	  How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?  
	  Grizzly Bear Facts  

			 
			 
			
			
			
						
		 
	 




	
	
	 
	
	
		 
			
		 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?  
						 The body of a camel is so amazingly adapted to survival in the desert that it can with stand even the harshest of desert climates. Their biggest strength has to be their ability to survive without food and water for long periods of time. This unique ability stems from their body being able to store fat in their humps. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Grizzly Bear Facts  
						 Did you know that the grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis) can weigh up to 800lbs and reach heights of up to 8 foot when standing on its rear legs. With such mass and size you would expect it to be extremely slow but despite such size it can sprint at speeds as high as 40km/h which is faster than an olympic athlete. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Some Animals Just Don’t Need Males  
						 Did you know that there are certain animal species where there are no males only females. This is fairly common among insects and worms but also occurs to a lesser extent in some lizards.  Due to only one sex existing the females are actually able to lay eggs without the need of a male (i.e. no fertilization is required). 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Do Jelly Fish Have Bones ?  
						 Did you know that all Jellyfish no matter how large or small have no solid skeleton to support their body. Instead their shape is maintained by soft water filled inner tissues, over which its outer layers are stretched. Take a jelly fish out of water and its beautiful shape and size is visible as nothing more than a primitive lump of jelly. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  The Oldest Living Thing On Earth  
						 Trees live much longer than any other type of plant or animal. In fact it’s possible to know the age of a tree by counting the rings in its trunk (One ring generally equates to one year). The oldest living tree and hence one of the oldest known living things on Earth is a bristlecone pine tree located in California, North America. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Fractional Distillation Of Air  
						 Did you know that the air we breathe isn’t just oxygen, infact it’s made up of a number of different gases such as nitrogen, oxygen, carbon dioxide, argon, neon and many others. Each of these gases carry useful properties so separating them from the air around us is extremely beneficial. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  High Speed Avalanches  
						 Although an avalanche can mean the fall of any material e.g. snow, soil and even rocks, in common usage it generally refers to a falling mass of ice and snow which breaks away from the side of a mountain or cliff and surges down at great speed. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Preserve Your Body In Ice Like Otzi  
						 Did you know that under extreme cold the human body can be preserved over 1000’s of years. A great example of this was during September 1991 when hikers in the Otztal Alps came across the body of a man who turned out to be over 5000 years old. He was preserved in an airtight pocket beneath a huge glacier. 
					 
					 
			 
				 
	
		 
			  « Older Articles  
			  Recent Articles »  
		 
		 
		
	
	 









	

	 

	 
			
							
			 
				  
				  
			 
			
			
			  Archives 
				 
					  July 2010  
	  June 2009  
	  October 2008  
	  September 2008  
	  July 2008  
	  June 2008  
	  May 2008  
	  March 2008  
	  February 2008  
	  January 2008  
	  December 2007  
	  October 2007  
	  September 2007  
	  August 2007  
	  July 2007  
	  June 2007  
				 
			 
				
		
		
		 
  

 

	 
    
    	  
    	  
    
     

	 
		 Science Facts  
		© 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		Part Of The  Cool Facts  Network