Science Facts  » 2008 » March 

  

 
 
 
 
 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
  
 
 

  


 
 
 
 

		
				
				
				
				 
			
				 
					  
					  
						  
					 	
					
					
					
				 
				
				  
		 
		 
  
			
				 
				
				 
				 
					  
				  

				 
					 Email Subscription 
					Facts sent direct to your inbox
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
				 
				
				 
					 Random Fact 
					   


 
				 
				 
		
				
		
				 
				 
				 More Cool Science Links 
				 If you own or run a science website then why not submit it to our teaching sites directory  here  
				 
				 
				  
						  
											
				
				 
				 
				
				

  
 
  
  


 
  
  


				

  
	 
	  
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Tornadoes : High Speed Destruction  
						 A tornado is generally perceived to be one of the most violent weather disturbances you could ever face. The extremely fast whirling winds mean that tornadoes can travel for many miles at great speed causing massive destruction, death and cost to the people and environment they hit. As an example one tornado traveled for 293 miles across the USA crossing [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Aborigines : The Indigenous Australian  
						 Did you know that the word “aboriginal” translates into the phrase “first known?” Aboriginal was first used in Greece and Italy but when stone tools in Australia were found to be 12,000 years old, the word “aborigine” was assigned to name the native people of Australia. Some archaeologists estimate that the aborigines in Australia have existed [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Cave Stalactites : Growing Slowly  
						 Many scientists study caves but few of them focus on stalactites. The stalactites are formations that appear like icicles hanging down from the roof of the cave. These stalactites are not made of ice but of calcium carbonate, but did you know that all stalactites all over the world only have two traits? Firstly a [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Dwarf Planets  
						 A dwarf planet is a celestial body which is too small to be considered a real planet but too large to be called a space rock. It must revolve around the sun and it should not be a satellite of another planet. Hence this disqualifies earth’s big moon from being a dwarf planet. Our solar [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  International Space Station (ISS)  
						 The International Space Station (ISS) is a result of the collaboration between six countries (United States, Russia, Japan, Canada, Italy, and Brazil) and the European Space Agency. Not only has it been inhabited by astronauts continuously since the first crew entered the station on November 2nd 2000 but amazingly it only needs three astronauts on [...] 
					 
					 
			 
				 
		 
			  
			  
		 
		
	 
	
	 
	
			
	 

 
		 
			
							
			 
			 	 
						  
						  RSS Feed Subscription  
				 
			 
			
			  Quick Facts 
				 
					  Animal Facts  
  Human Facts  
  Space Facts  
  Weather Facts  
				 
			 
			
			  Categories 
				 
						  Animals 
 
	  Dinosaurs 
 
	  Earth 
 
	  Nature 
 
	  Outer Space 
 
	  People 
 
	  Physics 
 
	  Technology 
 
	  Weather 
 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			    Other Sites 
				 
					  Dinosaur Facts  
  Dinosaurs  
  Discover Science  
  Global Warming Facts  
  Health Facts  
  How Long Does  
  Optical Illusions  
  Random Facts  
  Teacher Sites  
  Teaching English Jobs  
  Technology and Electronics  
  Texas Electricity  
  Tiger Facts  
  Top Teacher Sites  
				 
								
				
			 
			
			  Recent Articles 
			 
					  Deepest Lake In The World ?  
	  Where Did The Word Robot Come From ?  
	  What’s The Fastest Possible Speed ?  
	  The Difference Between Insects And Spiders ?  
	  How Heavy Is The Earth ?  
	  What’s A Google ?  
	  Which Is The Highest Waterfall In The World ?  
	  Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?  
	  How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?  
	  Grizzly Bear Facts  

			 
			 
			
			
			
						
		 
	 


 

	 
			
							
			 
				  
				  
			 
			
			
			  Archives 
				 
					  July 2010  
	  June 2009  
	  October 2008  
	  September 2008  
	  July 2008  
	  June 2008  
	  May 2008  
	  March 2008  
	  February 2008  
	  January 2008  
	  December 2007  
	  October 2007  
	  September 2007  
	  August 2007  
	  July 2007  
	  June 2007  
				 
			 
				
		
		
		 
  

 

	 
    
    	  
    	  
    
     

	 
		 Science Facts  
		© 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		Part Of The  Cool Facts  Network