Dinosaurs - Dinosaur, facts, fossils, and information 
 
 
  
  
 

 
     
		    	 
        	 Dinosaur Fact - Dinosaurs, facts, fossils, dinosaur information 
         
        
         
         	
              
  
                 
         
             
                  	  
                    
                     
                        
         				 Welcome to Dinosaur Fact 
                         
                            
 
 
  

 
 
  
 Enter your search terms 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 Web  
 
  
 www.dinosaurfact.net  
 
 
 Submit search form 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 

                            
                              
                            
                            Welcome to Dinosaur Fact. This is the largest compilation of 
                            
                            knowledge in relation to everything to do with dinosaurs  
                             
                            
                            Read more:  View Our Dinosaur Classification List .
                            
                              
                            
                             
                            
                             
                            	 
                                	 
                                    	    
                                     
                                     
                                          
										  
                                          
                                     
                                     
                                    	 Tweet   
                                     
                                 
                             
                                                        
							    
                             
  
  
 
                        
                         
                        
                        
                        
                        
                         
                       	   Practically every child in the world, at some point, has been enthused with dinosaurs. Actually, probably most adults are intrigued by the dinosaur facts that have shown up over the years, also. Dinosaurs were a great part of our world history, and even though we may never fully understand them, or why they are now extinct, the fact remains that walking with dinosaurs must have been an amazing feat, and we all, in some way, would like to know more about the mystery that is dinosaurs. 
                        	 Dinosaur facts have sprung up giving us some clue as to the life that these amazing creatures led and the tremendous size of some of them. Dinosaur pictures, although clearly recreated, have given us some insight to their size and shape, but it still seems that we know so little about what they were really like. Of course, we know a few facts about them from the many movies, television specials, and news broadcasts covering the latest dig for dinosaurs, but how much do we really know? We know that the most common Jurassic dinosaurs were the Camarasaurus. And we know that walking with dinosaurs is something that, if we are perfectly honest with ourselves, we have all dreamed about at some point.                        	   
                        	 Children, of course, think that a dinosaur is the most awesome creature in the world. Dinosaurs for kids are plentiful. Stuffed animals, movies, action figures, all represent to children to amazing creatures that dinosaurs were. As we get older, we don’t lose the awe that dinosaurs inspire in us. As new dinosaur facts are presented we are all glued to the television or newspaper just trying to comprehend the magnitude of the era in which dinosaurs ruled the world. And it seems that the more we know, the more we want to know. We will forever be enthralled in the process of learning about dinosaurs. 
                        	  The sad thing is, we may never fully know what walking with dinosaurs would be like. We can watch the movies and learning specials, but to have actually walked in their world is a feeling that seems out of reach. However, the more we learn about these amazing creatures, the more we can strive to place ourselves in their world. One day, it may be possible to get a feel of what living and walking with dinosaurs really was. Until then, we can still dream. 
                         
                         
                          
                        	
                        	  
  
                         
                        
                          ?Did you know... 
                         
                        	 Dinosaurs lived and evolved for over 185 million years until they became extinct. The cause has not been proven yet, but many believe that an asteroid Over 9 miles wide hit the earth In the Gulf of Mexico. 
                            
                             
                            	 Giganotosaurus is the largest carnivorous dinosaur discovered. 
                                 Fossils were discovered with a Protoceratops & velociraptor that appeared to have been fighting when they were quickly killed. The claw of the raptor was in the others' stomach as well. 
                                 Nigersaurus may have been responsible for dinosaur extinction! 
                                 There is no evidence that suggests that the dilophosaurus spit venomous mucus. 
                             
                         

                        
                        
                        
                        
           
                     
                    
                 
                
                 
                	 Dinosaur Information 
 
	  Home  
      Earth Timelines  
      Triassic Dinosaurs  
      Jurassic Dinosaurs  
      Cretaceous Dinosaurs  
      Pterosaurs  
      Marine Reptiles  
      Dinosaur Groups  
      Dinosaur Extinction  
      Dinosaurs from Canada  
      List of Species  
 

 
	
      
  
                  	
                    
                 
                	 Fun Stuff 
 
      Dino stuff for sale  
      Dinosaurs in the future  
      Dinosaur Sounds  
      Dino general FAQ  	
 


 Change language 
 
      English  
      Español  	
 

 Partners 
 
      wristbands  
          American Flag  
      Play Touch Games  
      GPA Calculator  
      UK boarding school  
      Poster Printing  
      Custom Essay  
      Road Runner High Speed  
      SEO services by Seobay.com  
      Essay help  
      Web Hosting Search  
      Science Facts  
      Planet Dinosaur  
      Dinosaur Facts  
 

 
	
      
  
                      
                
                    
         
        
          
        
		         
        	 Disclaimer   
            We compete aggressively for the following keywords: 
			 Dinosaurs 
             Dinosaur Facts 
             Dinosaur Pics 
             Dinosaur information 
             Dinosaur Extinction 
             © Copyright 2007-2011  Dinosaur Facts   
			
             home insulation  |
             Annuities  |
             Hollywood Murders  |
             computer monitoring software  |
             Your link here  |
             Your link here  |