Science Facts  » How Heavy Is The Earth ? 

  

 
 
 
 
 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  


 
 
 
 

		
				
				
				
				 
			
				 
					  
					  
						  
					 	
					
					
					
				 
				
				  
		 
		 
  
			
				 
				
				 
				 
					  
				  

				 
					 Email Subscription 
					Facts sent direct to your inbox
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
				 
				
				 
					 Random Fact 
					   


 
				 
				 
		
				
		
				 
				 
				 More Cool Science Links 
				 If you own or run a science website then why not submit it to our teaching sites directory  here  
				 
				 
				  
						  
											
				
				 
				 
				
				

  
 
  
  


 
  
  


				

  

 
		 
			
							
			 
			 	 
						  
						  RSS Feed Subscription  
				 
			 
			
			  Quick Facts 
				 
					  Animal Facts  
  Human Facts  
  Space Facts  
  Weather Facts  
				 
			 
			
			  Categories 
				 
						  Animals 
 
	  Dinosaurs 
 
	  Earth 
 
	  Nature 
 
	  Outer Space 
 
	  People 
 
	  Physics 
 
	  Technology 
 
	  Weather 
 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			    Other Sites 
				 
					  Dinosaur Facts  
  Dinosaurs  
  Discover Science  
  Global Warming Facts  
  Health Facts  
  How Long Does  
  Optical Illusions  
  Random Facts  
  Teacher Sites  
  Teaching English Jobs  
  Technology and Electronics  
  Texas Electricity  
  Tiger Facts  
  Top Teacher Sites  
				 
								
				
			 
			
			  Recent Articles 
			 
					  Deepest Lake In The World ?  
	  Where Did The Word Robot Come From ?  
	  What’s The Fastest Possible Speed ?  
	  The Difference Between Insects And Spiders ?  
	  How Heavy Is The Earth ?  
	  What’s A Google ?  
	  Which Is The Highest Waterfall In The World ?  
	  Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?  
	  How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?  
	  Grizzly Bear Facts  

			 
			 
			
			
			
						
		 
	 


	 
				
  		
			 
			
				 Home ›› Earth ››How Heavy Is The Earth ?				
			 
				
			
			 
			 
			 
			 How Heavy Is The Earth ? 
			 Posted By  Zoe Delphy  On June 19, 2009 		
			 
							
				 
				
										
				
					
									 
				
				 
				
												  
							  
										 
				 
			
				 Now despite science coming forward in leaps and bounds the simple question of how much the Earth weighs isn’t as straightforward as you might think. Certainly placing the earth onto a massive set of weighing scales isn’t an option. So how do we measure the total weight of the earth ? 
 Well scientists initially went about this task by trying to estimate the weight of a very large mountain and then simply scaling that figure up. However this method led to some peculiar results and since then the mathematics and calculations involved have changed taking into consideration further factors such as the volume and overall density of the planet.  
 If you combine the above with weighted samples of various parts of the planet scientists have come up with a more accurate number which they believe to be around 6 quadrillion kilograms. Mind boggling to say the least but if you think that’s a big number don’t forget to check out our article on the number  Googol . 
                
              
				
				 
				  
				  
				
				 
	
							 
			 
			 
			
			


	
	 76 Responses to “How Heavy Is The Earth ?”  
	

	 

	
		 
			 
			 arriana   

						  

			
			 hey that is not the weight of the planet earth for the weight of the earth is only 109.72560 grams because of the weight of the gravity up in space you guys are such retards !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			E Grocutt  

						  

			
			 6 quadrillion kg = 6 x 10^12 kg. 
 ACTUAL mass of the Earth = 6 x 10^24 kg. 
 You’re out by a factor of a quadrillion or so. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			E Grocutt  

						  

			
			 Whoops, typo: 6 quadrillion kg = 6 x 10^15 kg, sorry! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Eric  

						  

			
			 Weight or mass?  I was under the impression that weight was mass*gravity and that it was measured in newtons. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Paul  

						  

			
			 Ok, I think there is a misconception here, one thing is the mass of the earth and another is its weight.  Unfortunately in our daily lives we don’t use the appropriate units; mass in measured in Kg and weight in Newtons (if you use the MKS system).  Weight is related to the gravitational attraction of the bodies in question, or more precisely to the gravitational field present in the region of space where the body being weighed is located.  That is why things on the moon weigh just 1/6 of their weight on earth, the gravitational attraction has changed, not the mass, it has been kept constant.  Mass is the quantification of a property of matter, namely, inertia. 
The article should be entitled “What is the mass of the Earth?,” and yes, it is about 6 x 10^24 kg. 
Just one more thing, there is no need to insult anybody arriana. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Jerome Daniels  

						  

			
			 If you read the article it’s not disputing what the possible mass of the earth is, because as everyone is quoting it’s known.  
 The article is posting a hypothetical scenario i.e that of if you were to weigh each gram of rock, soil etc on the earth according to earths gravitational forces what is the total weight of all the solid mass on the earth. 
 In short most of you are trying to be smart asses by posting the mass when that’s not what the author of the article is even talking about, nor is it what they intended the article to be about. If it was just pin pointing the mass of the earth, well that would be a pretty boring article. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Brandon  

						  

			
			 Then the author still got his units wrong.  An answer to “how much does the earth weigh?” should be in Newtons. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Malfoy  

						  

			
			 Brandon, you’re either a complete moron or just totally uneducated. Newtons is a measure of force used for gravity calculations. The author referred to weight which is typically measured in Kg, Grams, Stones etc. 
 When’s the last time you used a “WEIGHING SCALE” which had the measurement in Newtons… What a moron lol 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Brandon  

						  

			
			 “Newtons is a measure of force used for gravity calculations.”  Thats what weight IS.  Its the measure of gravitational FORCE.  Kilograms are a measure of mass.  Mass and weight are often used interchangeably, but theyre actually very different. 
 As to the “weighing scale” issue.  There are basically two different types of scales, foce scales and mass scales.  Mass scales balance the object being weighed against an object of known mass in order to determine the mass of the unknown object.  These can be used on anywhere there is constant gravitational acceleration (ie. an object weighed with one will display the same mass on earth and on the moon.)  Force scales use a spring or other means to measure the force an object exerts against the scale due to gravity, measuring what we refer to as “weight.”  These types of scales depend on what planet the measurement is taken (ie. an object weighed with one will display a different weight on earth than it will on the moon.)  However, force scales often output measurements in Kilograms.  They can do this because as long as you use the scale on earth, an object with 5 kilograms of mass will always weigh the same amount (about 50 Newtons) and thus the makers of the scale can easily calibrate the numbers of the scale to display how much mass an object placed on it would have.  keep in mind that this does not make it a mass scale.  Your bathroom scale might tell you that you weigh 70 kilograms, but if you used it on the moon it would give you a different number even though your mass did not change. 
 This bring us to the point of the article.  If you measured the mass or each chunk of the earth and then summed them up, you would get the total mass of the earth as a result, which is the number people are quoting in the comments.  If you took a scale around every section of the earth and measures the WEIGHT of each section relative to where it was in the earth, you would get a different number, a number measured in Newtons.  And this number would not be able to be converted into kilograms, because the gravitational acceleration is not constant everywhere there is mass in the earth (for example, the gravitational acceleration at the middle of the earth would be close to zero, meaning the material at the core of the earth has almost no weight. 
 You could have learned most of this by reading the wikipedia article on weighing scales, but instead you chose to make it apparent how ignorant you are. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Zoe Delphy  

						  

			
			 Brandon thanks for the very thorough explanation of weight/mass and as you’ve stated both terms in general usage are used interchangeably. And I agree the term mass is probably the better term to use.  
 Also just to clarify most sources do cite the mass being closer to 6?10^24 which for brownie points is not 6 quadrillion but spoken as ??  
 And guys, thanks for all the comments but let’s try to be a little more friendly. After all this a site for learning! And learning should always be fun   However saying that it’s certainly great to see everyone stepping in and trying to correct, enhance and add to the articles. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			just some dude  

						  

			
			 the earth is exactly 5.9 sextrillion metric tons.  
 yes its a real word. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			sara  

						  

			
			 this is such useful information for us to know and understand and is very cool  too. this kind of information can really help our nation to better understanding of our universe!!! thanks for these kinds of websites that help us and our generations!!!! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 adnan   

						  

			
			 How much is 6 quadrillion any way? 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 adnan   

						  

			
			 COME ON GIVE THE ANSWER 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Al  

						  

			
			 Weight in physics is equal to mass times gravity. The Earth’s mass is approximately equal to 6 x 10^24 kg. Now for the gravitational force… well it sort of depends. If you take it on the Earth’s surface then it should be 9.81 m/s^2. However, if you calculate the gravitational field’s strength F = G * (M1 * M2 / R2) you’ll need to place the Earth on another planet, star, moon, rock, etc. so it will depend on what you compare it to like choosing Neptune Mercury or Mars. Solve for F and multiply to the mass. And since weight isn’t constant the information will be useless. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 seanna   

						  

			
			 omg cool 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Shane  

						  

			
			 Great job explaining the difference between weight and mass Brandon.  And kudos for exercising restraint responding to the insults.  There aren’t many things that are more entertaining than seeing a person condescend from a position of complete ignorance. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Lane B.  

						  

			
			 You know what I really enjoy?  It’s reading comments from book-smart people with so few social skills, that they cannot accept someone else’s alternative argument or opinion without tossing in a few ill-mannered jabs.  Grow up already. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			can't believe i read all this  

						  

			
			 who has anything better to do? 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			dudette  

						  

			
			 how many pounds is 6 quadrillian 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Joe   

						  

			
			 the earth was 1 pound problobly 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Joe   

						  

			
			 I actualy  don’t know because I’M NOT A NERD 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 sami   

						  

			
			 wat’s wrong with u ……………………its not weight its mass 
 weight=mass*GRAVITY 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Adam   

						  

			
			 6 quadrillion kg = 6 x 10^12 kg. 
 ACTUAL mass of the Earth = 6 x 10^24 kg. 
 You’re out by a factor of a quadrillion or so. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Abdul Arshad   

						  

			
			 earth is 5.98*10to the 24th power 
                              which is 5,980,000,000,000,000,000,000,000kg 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 rajat   

						  

			
			 i really enjoyed it very much and i am very excited to see & learn about different facts 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Ken  

						  

			
			 Ask the turtle that supports the earth in space, he will give you the correct answer. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			samantha  

						  

			
			 all of you are acting like nerds.no offense. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			samantha  

						  

			
			 and if im been mean im really sorry 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			James  

						  

			
			 I know samantha, whats with all these nerds? Its not like this is a science fact website. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Abduel Muhammad   

						  

			
			 the earth weighs sixsextillion tons. a unit followed by 21 zeros 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Densio  

						  

			
			 Wow…lol 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Michael A. Harris  

						  

			
			 Hahazaza, I’m Sooooo Cool. lol 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Patrick  

						  

			
			 Brandon, not to mock your intelligence but rather to rectify a common error, the closer you are to the Earth’s core the stronger the gravitational force becomes. Take into consideration Newton’s Law of Universal gravitation—F=G[(M*m)/r^2]. The two masses being taken into consideration would be the earth’s and your own. The diameter would be measured by taking the distance between your center and the center of the Earth and then divide the result by two in order to get the radius—which you’d plug into the denominator of the equation. Therefore, the smaller the radius or the distance between you and the earth, the greater the force would become…increasing by a factor of four each time the radius is halved because in the equation ‘r’ is squared. And Zoe is right…this blog is to increase one’s knowledge-base. Not to be condescending in an attempt to glorify your own intelligence. Back up your info with ‘reliable info’—-Physics can be fun. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Patrick  

						  

			
			 Oh btw more applicable evidence of my claim is seen when describing the earth’s core. If the gravitational force in the center of the earth were truly nominal then why  is the earth’s molten core a continuous flow of nickel and cobalt rather than just a blob? 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Phil   

						  

			
			 Does it realey matter what the weight is! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Danny  

						  

			
			 thank you (Just some dude ) for your straight forward answer, can you please explain how you calculated this ?  (some of us truly are morons and need a little help) 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 tushar   

						  

			
			 well , not talking about the weight , i will just want to say that mass of earth is 6*10^24. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			josh  

						  

			
			 earth as it is suspended ina vaume with no gravity weighs nothing. weight is measured with how much force of gravity there is between you and the surface you measure against. the theory that any two material particles, if not acted on by another force will be accelerated tward eachother. as earth isn’t against anything to measure with we can’t tell its weight. we could calculate it’s mass though. i may be woefully wrong and if i am please let me know, thanks 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			josh  

						  

			
			 wow lots of spelling errors, sorry it’s a vacume with no gravity and as such weighs nothing again if i’m wrong tell me 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 anton   

						  

			
			 you are the retard if u think the earth weighs 109.72560 grams. u dont no shit about gravity u turd 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Sarang  

						  

			
			 Actually we cannot answer this question because Weight of any BODY is measured in comparison to the other bodie’s gravity. 
So there cannot be any fixed figure attained for earth. 
As for the Sun the weight of earth would be different and for moon it will be different. 
UNDERSTOOD. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			zayn  

						  

			
			 and weight is the amount of gravitational force 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			kyle sherwood  

						  

			
			 The Earth weighs nothing in the vacuum of space. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Just Looking and curious  

						  

			
			 I didnt realise how bitchy you science lot got! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			someone  

						  

			
			 Samantha- if I’m BEING mean. Dummy. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 :P   

						  

			
			 Wow…. Cool Science FACTS!   
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 gezahegn   

						  

			
			 ohhh……it is half of the weigght of the earth i know before ,which should i believe! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			lexxy :D  

						  

			
			 its a real number soo dnt b bitches about it lmfao 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			lexxy :D  

						  

			
			 rawr rawr rawr ima dinosaur (; 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			lexxy :D  

						  

			
			 my birthday is on january 28   ohh wait… its summer… dammit. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			lexxy :D  

						  

			
			 i live in jersey… oh gawd. im dumb. i hope theres no creepers on here. lmaooo. my names lexxy… if ya havnt noticed. (: ima labled as a ”scene-girl” har-har-har <.< 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			rick  

						  

			
			 all very interesting, however what if this universe that we live in was the quantum physics of another hugley bigger universe ,how much would we weigh then to the giants of of exoverse ? answears on a postcard please . 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Thanks For Information!  

						  

			
			 It was great reading all of your information! So i guess it’s safe to say i weigh more than the earth because of the gravitational pull and the earth doesn’t? Or should we choose a place on earth, calculate the gravitational force, and use the calculation as a basis for the earth and everything else to big to sit on a scale? Just my thoughts! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Hannahdave98  

						  

			
			 i think that it is true i hav researched it on loads of sites and got exactly the same answer sooo it is correct xxx 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			SURESH KUMAR  

						  

			
			 Because due to the atmospheric pressure of the earth in the blood of the human beings surrounding air coms to an still and if it is so u cant measure the earths wieght because anything in space dont have weight. 
DID ANY ONE UNDERSTAND IT . 
Iam a student of MSC PHYSICS 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Ma. Shanise Anne Gabriella   

						  

			
			 I think that is not true…. For me,Arriana is correct the earth measures only 109.72560 grams.   
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Ma. Shanise Anne Gabriella   

						  

			
			 Am i correct? <3 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			nicole  

						  

			
			 and what mountain was used? 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Unknown   

						  

			
			 hey People Does Anyoe Have Weed They Could Give Me Fuck This Earth Its Goin To Shit Already.WHERES MY WEED 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			informatimaago  

						  

			
			 @adam: 
 1e24 is indeed a quadrillion. 
 Only for the retarded (by 200 years) americans who are still using the old system based on 1e3 exponents.  An american quadrillion is only 1e12. 
 But for the rest of the world using the System International, one quadrillion is 10^24. 
  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Long_and_short_scales  
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Bri  

						  

			
			 I don’t understand how one could measure the earth .  There are only a few people that are able to see the whole earth and they could be wrong on those measurements. Right? I need answers 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Kristin  

						  

			
			 it is 6 * 10^24 power.   
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			wilmor  

						  

			
			 MASS, not weight… 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			concerned  

						  

			
			 Does anyone read these comments?  
 The comment by Unknown is very inappropriate and so is some of the language in some of the other posts.  
 I went on line to get science facts for my child for school – why do people feel it is alright to put garbage like this on line on sites that are aimed for children?  
 These are the people that make controls like screening information a necessity before being posted, costing others in time and energy and potentially financially. 
Unfortunately, it is clear that these controls need to be considered on this site for those who are not considerate of others. 
 This is a sad commentary on how a few peoples inappropriate actions cause people to have to look at controls for everyone, even the majority of people, whose actions are appropriate and in truth need no controls. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			random  

						  

			
			 wow the earth is huge your all quite rong the earths mass is inpossible to tell the earth is getting heavier every second your all crazy you would need to be a mad and sane scientist 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 kucky   

						  

			
			 facts r interesting 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			me  

						  

			
			 so how heavy is the earth?? 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 GruniUn   

						  

			
			 Approximately 6,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 tons. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 GruniUn   

						  

			
			 6 sextillion tons. Just Some Dude may have made a typographical error in his spelling, but yes it is a real word/numerical period. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			genius girl  

						  

			
			 science really amazing!superb 2 study 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			lucky  

						  

			
			 hmmm….interesting.. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Hetty   

						  

			
			 Superbly ilulminating data here, thanks! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			G.Robison  

						  

			
			 The weight of the earth is “1? of earth you must have something to compare it to. 
 As in the earth is -1.0X10^6 sols (compared to the sun) 1,000,000,000 earths would 
fit in the sun….. 
 Weight off of (above or out there)   the surface of earth has to be compared to another body of mass 
 Gravity only occurs as mass bends space more mass more bend more gravity…. 
 Scotch helps with ice and water 
 Best of luck 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			ishan  

						  

			
			 it’s so interesting 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 juanmiguelfernando   

						  

			
			 i think its true 
			 
		 

	
	
	 

 



 Leave a Comment 


 


  
 Name (required)  

  
 Mail (Not Published)(required)  

  
 Website  




    

  
 
 
   
 


				
	 
	
 

	 
			
							
			 
				  
				  
			 
			
			
			  Archives 
				 
					  July 2010  
	  June 2009  
	  October 2008  
	  September 2008  
	  July 2008  
	  June 2008  
	  May 2008  
	  March 2008  
	  February 2008  
	  January 2008  
	  December 2007  
	  October 2007  
	  September 2007  
	  August 2007  
	  July 2007  
	  June 2007  
				 
			 
				
		
		
		 
 

 


 

	 
    
    	  
    	  
    
     

	 
		 Science Facts  
		© 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		Part Of The  Cool Facts  Network