Science Facts  » Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ? 

  

 
 
 
 
 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  


 
 
 
 

		
				
				
				
				 
			
				 
					  
					  
						  
					 	
					
					
					
				 
				
				  
		 
		 
  
			
				 
				
				 
				 
					  
				  

				 
					 Email Subscription 
					Facts sent direct to your inbox
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
				 
				
				 
					 Random Fact 
					   


 
				 
				 
		
				
		
				 
				 
				 More Cool Science Links 
				 If you own or run a science website then why not submit it to our teaching sites directory  here  
				 
				 
				  
						  
											
				
				 
				 
				
				

  
 
  
  


 
  
  


				

  

 
		 
			
							
			 
			 	 
						  
						  RSS Feed Subscription  
				 
			 
			
			  Quick Facts 
				 
					  Animal Facts  
  Human Facts  
  Space Facts  
  Weather Facts  
				 
			 
			
			  Categories 
				 
						  Animals 
 
	  Dinosaurs 
 
	  Earth 
 
	  Nature 
 
	  Outer Space 
 
	  People 
 
	  Physics 
 
	  Technology 
 
	  Weather 
 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			    Other Sites 
				 
					  Dinosaur Facts  
  Dinosaurs  
  Discover Science  
  Global Warming Facts  
  Health Facts  
  How Long Does  
  Optical Illusions  
  Random Facts  
  Teacher Sites  
  Teaching English Jobs  
  Technology and Electronics  
  Texas Electricity  
  Tiger Facts  
  Top Teacher Sites  
				 
								
				
			 
			
			  Recent Articles 
			 
					  Deepest Lake In The World ?  
	  Where Did The Word Robot Come From ?  
	  What’s The Fastest Possible Speed ?  
	  The Difference Between Insects And Spiders ?  
	  How Heavy Is The Earth ?  
	  What’s A Google ?  
	  Which Is The Highest Waterfall In The World ?  
	  Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?  
	  How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?  
	  Grizzly Bear Facts  

			 
			 
			
			
			
						
		 
	 


	 
				
  		
			 
			
				 Home ›› Animals ››Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?				
			 
				
			
			 
			 
			 
			 Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ? 
			 Posted By  Zoe Delphy  On June 16, 2009 		
			 
							
				 
				
										
				
					
									 
				
				 
				
												  
							  
										 
				 
			
				 Apart from snakes and insects the hippopotamus kills more people in Africa than any other! It’s a statistic which many find shocking especially because they’re not actually meat eaters. So what makes the hippo so dangerous ?  
 Well to begin with they’re large, extremely bad tempered and surprisingly quick on both land and water. If you combine these factors with a strong set of jaws and large tusks you have an animal with an extremely destructive bite. 
 Most attacks seem to occur at watering holes or near to water where humans either come too close or simply disturb the hippo from a distance. So just remember next time you’re in Africa it’s not only the lions, cheetahs and crocidiles you need to worry about. Beware of the bad tempered hippo! 
 Relevant Links 
 
  Hippo Mauls Beauty Queen  
  Hippo Attacks Bathing Man  
 
                
              
				
				 
				  
				  
				
				 
	
							 
			 
			 
			
			


	
	 24 Responses to “Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?”  
	

	 

	
		 
			 
			 una   

						  

			
			 Oh my god!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! It can killl me! Maybe I dont want animals after all! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			laura  

						  

			
			 Apart from snakes and insects the hippopotamus kills more people in Africa than any other! It’s a statistic which many find shocking especially because they’re not actually meat eaters. So what makes the hippo so dangerous ? 
Well to begin with they’re large, extremely bad tempered and surprisingly quick on both land and water. If you combine these factors with a strong set of jaws and large tusks you have an animal with an extremely destructive bite. 
Most attacks seem to occur at watering holes or near to water where humans either come too close or simply disturb the hippo from a distance. So just remember next time you’re in Africa it’s not only the lions, cheetahs and crocidiles you need to worry about. Beware of the bad tempered hippo 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 sierra   

						  

			
			 wow you guys sure dont watch animal planet dp you to be on a science page gosh watch and RIP STEVE ERWIN IL ALWAYS LOOK UP TO YOU YOU TAUGHT ME TO CATCH MY FIRST SNAKE AT 8 AND A HALF NOEW IM 14 MOM HATES WHEN I DO CATCH THEM BUT SHE NOES IT RUNS IN MY BLOOD WELL I GOTT FINISH HOMEWORK PEACE SUCKA   
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			jullie belberdin  

						  

			
			 Apart from snakes and insects the hippopotamus kills more people in Africa than any other! It’s a statistic which many find shocking especially because they’re not actually meat eaters. So what makes the hippo so dangerous ? 
Well to begin with they’re large, extremely bad tempered and surprisingly quick on both land and water. If you combine these factors with a strong set of jaws and large tusks you have an animal with an extremely destructive bite. 
Most attacks seem to occur at watering holes or near to water where humans either come too close or simply disturb the hippo from a distance. So just remember next time you’rein Africa it’s not only the lions, cheetahs and crocidiles you need to worry about. Beware of the bad tempered hippo 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			josh  

						  

			
			 it’s mors that their territorial than grumpy. they see people entering their territory and guard against those who enter. it’s kind of like if someone walked into youre house un announced. what would you do. keep in mind that the hippo isn’t nearly as cleaver as you are. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Cata   

						  

			
			 OMIGOD!!! poor hippo’s!! well, i was looking for something interseting to do for a project, and i am DEF doing this article!!!!  :P:P 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 sachi   

						  

			
			 save meeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 
plzzzzzzzzzz 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Bob sagget   

						  

			
			 WHAT KIND OF FAGGOT READS THIS 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Mune  

						  

			
			 O_o  And I thought hippos were harmless… 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			nur alam  

						  

			
			 oh, my god it may also be happen. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 karthik   

						  

			
			 iam in india and i dont want to isit africa………………………………….. 
thn how will it kill me…………………… 
na na na na naaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa…………………. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Prince  

						  

			
			 Really? Wow. :O 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 rohit   

						  

			
			 very dangerous na but we must save it and not kill it but i am in india and it is in africa so my life is saved 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Loydee  

						  

			
			 i was really thinking that tigers and other big cats are the most dangerous animals in Africa. Hippos are unbelievable because they look o tamed though they are big. L 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			vishal  

						  

			
			 i think its just because v humans r disturbing dem……. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 MUKESH   

						  

			
			 oh my god ! 
but i like such animals 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			sesan  

						  

			
			 hippopotamus is now the most dangerous animal in africa 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			ethel  

						  

			
			 i thought they were harmless.. poor hippos 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			timothy  

						  

			
			 wats funny is dat this animal is big but still got the ability to run fast 
nature is simply amazing and jaw breaking 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 usman   

						  

			
			 most dangerous animal is hippopotamus 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 usman   

						  

			
			 lioness hunt together to increase their chances of catching a prey 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			isha varshney  

						  

			
			 i was unkown about this dangerous  one :p 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Tania Bownes   

						  

			
			 Perhaps we should be teaching our children that the most dangerous animal in Africa is in fact Man.With 315 rhinos brutally slaughtered in South Africa this year for their horn as a supposed aphrodisiac for some insane people in the Asia, yes man is the most dangerous by far! A hippo will only be dangerous if threatened by someone who should have been nowhere near it in the first place. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 hippo lovaaaa   

						  

			
			 hippo lover here babes, love all da hippos out der they rock my world xoxoxox 
			 
		 

	
	
	 

 



 Leave a Comment 


 


  
 Name (required)  

  
 Mail (Not Published)(required)  

  
 Website  




    

  
 
 
   
 


				
	 
	
 

	 
			
							
			 
				  
				  
			 
			
			
			  Archives 
				 
					  July 2010  
	  June 2009  
	  October 2008  
	  September 2008  
	  July 2008  
	  June 2008  
	  May 2008  
	  March 2008  
	  February 2008  
	  January 2008  
	  December 2007  
	  October 2007  
	  September 2007  
	  August 2007  
	  July 2007  
	  June 2007  
				 
			 
				
		
		
		 
 

 


 

	 
    
    	  
    	  
    
     

	 
		 Science Facts  
		© 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		Part Of The  Cool Facts  Network