Science Facts  » Weather 

  

 
 
 
 
 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
  
 
 

  


 
 
 
 

		
				
				
				
				 
			
				 
					  
					  
						  
					 	
					
					
					
				 
				
				  
		 
		 
  
			
				 
				
				 
				 
					  
				  

				 
					 Email Subscription 
					Facts sent direct to your inbox
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
				 
				
				 
					 Random Fact 
					   


 
				 
				 
		
				
		
				 
				 
				 More Cool Science Links 
				 If you own or run a science website then why not submit it to our teaching sites directory  here  
				 
				 
				  
						  
											
				
				 
				 
				
				

  
 
  
  


 
  
  


				

  
	 
		 
			
							
			 
			 	 
						  
						  RSS Feed Subscription  
				 
			 
			
			  Quick Facts 
				 
					  Animal Facts  
  Human Facts  
  Space Facts  
  Weather Facts  
				 
			 
			
			  Categories 
				 
						  Animals 
 
	  Dinosaurs 
 
	  Earth 
 
	  Nature 
 
	  Outer Space 
 
	  People 
 
	  Physics 
 
	  Technology 
 
	  Weather 
 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			    Other Sites 
				 
					  Dinosaur Facts  
  Dinosaurs  
  Discover Science  
  Global Warming Facts  
  Health Facts  
  How Long Does  
  Optical Illusions  
  Random Facts  
  Teacher Sites  
  Teaching English Jobs  
  Technology and Electronics  
  Texas Electricity  
  Tiger Facts  
  Top Teacher Sites  
				 
								
				
			 
			
			  Recent Articles 
			 
					  Deepest Lake In The World ?  
	  Where Did The Word Robot Come From ?  
	  What’s The Fastest Possible Speed ?  
	  The Difference Between Insects And Spiders ?  
	  How Heavy Is The Earth ?  
	  What’s A Google ?  
	  Which Is The Highest Waterfall In The World ?  
	  Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?  
	  How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?  
	  Grizzly Bear Facts  

			 
			 
			
			
			
						
		 
	 




	
	
	 
	
	
		 
			
		  Weather  
		 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  High Speed Avalanches  
						 Although an avalanche can mean the fall of any material e.g. snow, soil and even rocks, in common usage it generally refers to a falling mass of ice and snow which breaks away from the side of a mountain or cliff and surges down at great speed. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Preserve Your Body In Ice Like Otzi  
						 Did you know that under extreme cold the human body can be preserved over 1000’s of years. A great example of this was during September 1991 when hikers in the Otztal Alps came across the body of a man who turned out to be over 5000 years old. He was preserved in an airtight pocket beneath a huge glacier. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Water Can Crack Metal  
						   Did you know that water can expand in volume by around 1/9th of its total composition. This means that when frozen it occupies more space than when in liquid form. The above phenomena is very common in houses where water pipes burst over the winter due to ice forming in the pipes. The pipes [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Global Warming Is Real  
						   The arctic ice is receding and global warming is no longer a theory but a reality. Scientists predict that by the year 2100, the average surface temperature will jump up by 6 degrees Fahrenheit. Nighttime temperatures will be higher and there will be hotter days. Since air temperature is a powerful component of climate, [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Tornadoes : High Speed Destruction  
						 A tornado is generally perceived to be one of the most violent weather disturbances you could ever face. The extremely fast whirling winds mean that tornadoes can travel for many miles at great speed causing massive destruction, death and cost to the people and environment they hit. As an example one tornado traveled for 293 miles across the USA crossing [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Autumn Trees & Leaves  
						 Autumn is a time of great beauty with trees turning from a bright green to shades of brown and red, but why do these leaves lose their green color and become the yellow, orange, and red we associate with Autumn? Well when the air temperature drops the chlorophyll inside the leaves starts to break down [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Hibernation, Migration & True Grit  
						   Winter is a hostile season for both animals and humans but interestingly both approach the cold in different ways. Whilst humans will survive by keeping their homes insulated and wearing several layers of clothing animals take a slightly different route ? In fact scientists studies have shown that most animals fall into one of [...] 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					 					
					 
					 					
					 
						  Pollution Problem: The Household  
						   The ever rising problem of pollution and greenhouse gases are not just generated from the exhaust of your automobile’s engine but from your house as well. Its a well known fact that more pollution is emitted from the average home compared to the average car.  In fact, the average home generates about 200,000 lbs or [...] 
					 
					 
			 
				 
	
		 
			  « Older Articles  
			  
		 
		 
		
	
	 









	

	 

	 
			
							
			 
				  
				  
			 
			
			
			  Archives 
				 
					  July 2010  
	  June 2009  
	  October 2008  
	  September 2008  
	  July 2008  
	  June 2008  
	  May 2008  
	  March 2008  
	  February 2008  
	  January 2008  
	  December 2007  
	  October 2007  
	  September 2007  
	  August 2007  
	  July 2007  
	  June 2007  
				 
			 
				
		
		
		 
  

 

	 
    
    	  
    	  
    
     

	 
		 Science Facts  
		© 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		Part Of The  Cool Facts  Network