Educational Resources in Physics, Astronomy, and Related Fields  
 
 
 

  Sonoma State University  
 Department of Physics and Astronomy  

   

 Some Educational Resources in Physics, Astronomy, and Related Fields 
  
 
	 On this page:
 
 
 
	  From research scientists   
	  For secondary schools and colleges  
 
 
	  For elementary and secondary schools  
	  Communication with other teachers  
 
 
	  Newsletters  
	  Organizations  
 
 
  Institutions  
  Gateways to more sites  
 
 
 Other pages: 
 
 
	   Favorite Physics Links  
	  Favorite Astronomy Links  
 
 
	
	  Jobs in Physics, Astronomy, and Other Fields  
 
 

   From research scientists 

 
  Amazing Space   Lesson plans based on Hubble Space Telescope images, at all levels. 


  Ask the Space Scientist  
Ask Sten Odenwald about anything astronomical. 

  The Aurora Project  
An Internet-based space physics lesson with a set of step-by-step assignments. 

  Basics of Radio Astronomy  
A book which you can download and print. 

  Education and Public Outreach group at Sonoma State University  
Information from NASA’s GLAST and Swift missions, Space Mysteries, and more. 

  Fermilab Education Office  
A tremendous resource for teachers and students at all levels from elementary school to graduate school. 

  Fusion Energy  
Slide shows, classroom activities, a teacher notebook, and links to more sites provided by the Fusion Group staff of General Atomics in San Diego, the US Department of Energy's Office of Fusion Energy Sciences, and teachers from San Diego County.  

  Imagine the Universe   
A service of the High-Energy Astrophysics Learning Center.  Practically a 3-ring circus with flashing lights, multimedia, and more. You can learn a lot here. 

  The Internet Plasma Physics Educational Experience  
Includes interactive pages on electricity, magnetism, energy, and fusion.  You can even play with a virtual Tokamak. 

  Lawrence Berkeley
   National Lab Educational Programs   
Includes an interactive high school magazine, “ Hands-on Universe ,” “ The Particle Adventure ,” “ ABC's of Nuclear Science ,” and much more. 

  The Mad Scientists Network  
“A collective crania of scientists from around the world, fielding questions from as many people in as many places.” 

  Making Matter: The Atomic Structure of Materials  
Includes pictures of crystal structures of all types. 

  NOAO
   K-12 Educational Outreach  
Astronomy from the National Optical Astronomy Observatories. 

  Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics: Outreach  
Includes  public lectures  by leading experts in particle physics and cosmology. 
  Planetary Science Research Discoveries   
Illustrated accounts of recent developments. 

  POETRY  Public Outreach, Education, Teaching and Reaching Youth -- the education and public outreach effort of the NASA  IMAGE  satellite project. 

  SETI Institute  
Now privately funded, the search for extraterrestrial intelligence goes on. 

  Virtual Trips to Black Holes and Neutron Stars  
Movies by Robert Nemiroff. 

  WWW Chemistry Guide  
Provides links to more than 200 sites with information about all things chemical. 
 

   For secondary schools and colleges 

 
     About
   Temperature  
Prepared for middle school teachers, very well done. 

  Agilent Educator’s Corner  
Experiments, lab exercises, engineering reference tools, computer-based training, links to online newsletters and tutorials, and more. 

  Astronomical Pseudo-science: A Skeptic's Resource List  
List of books, articles, and websites to refute astrology, UFOs, the "face" on Mars, creationism, etc., by Andrew Fraknoi. 

  Astronomy: Contemporary Lab Experiences (CLEA)  
A complete astronomy lab course on a computer. 

  Atmospheric Optics  
All about rays, rainbows, ice halos, sundogs, and more. 

  Bad Astronomy  by Philip Plait. 

  Bad Physics  by Mikolaj Sawicki of John A. Logan College. 


  Binary Stars  
free astronomy software for Macintosh computers teaches binary star concepts. 

  ChemiCool  
Includes a periodic table with much information about each element, also a chemistry dictionary. 
  The Constellations and Their Stars  
by Chris Dolan at the University of Wisconsin.  

  Cosmology Books and Links  
From a course at Sonoma State University. 


  Help for Physics Students   

  How Stuff Works  
“an amazing, award-winning, online destination for anyone who wants to know how anything works.” 

  Just in Time Teaching  
Material for teachers 

  Laser Tutorial  
for those who have little or no knowledge of lasers. 

  LCD Optics 101  
A short course in how Liquid Crystal Devices work, from 3M’ Vikuiti division.
 

  Learn About Light  
A list of links to educational pages dealing with light at many levels.
 


  Moon Phases  
Nice demo, even though it has phase = 0 at full moon. 

  nano media finder 
 a professional resource guide to nano-related media, from the Museum of Sc ience, Boston. 

  The Natures of the Stars  
By James Kaler of the University of Illinois. 

  NOVA  
The Teachers' section of the website of the public television series provides lesson plans, activities, and other resources intended to build on NOVA installments and give teachers ideas for using NOVA in the classroom. 

  Orrery: The Solar System in Action  Primarily an ad for software, this site includes a concise reference section on solar system objects with good links. 

  Physics 24/7 Physics Homework Help  
Primarily a pay site to help students with high school and introductory college physics, this site includes some free tutorials and links to simulations and quizzes elsewhere. 

  Physics Academic Software  
A place to purchase programs produced by the physics teaching community. 

  Physics of Music and Musical Instruments  
A complete textbook (4.7 MB  pdf ) by David Lapp of Tamalpais High School, Mill Valley, CA. 

  Physics Test/Lecture Drawings  from the  Physics Instructional Resource Association , which has many other resources as well. 

  plus magazine  
This excellent online British magazine, designed to promote mathematics, contains a great deal of astronomy and some physics. 



  Relativity Visualized: Space Time Travel  Online papers, images, movies and paper models by Ute Kraus’s physics education group at the University of Tübingen, in German and English. 

  The Solid State Simulation Project  
Software from Cornell for a senior or graduate level course.  Demo available online. 

  Teaching Innovations in Physics  
Help for physics teachers and students from Prentice Hall. 

  Textbook Revolution  
Links to and reviews of a number of physics textbooks available free online. There is another list at  The Assayer .
 
  Transistorized: The History of the Invention of the Transistor  
Designed to accompany a November 1999 PBS documentary.  Educational materials for grades 9-12 are available. 

  Web Resources for Introductory Physics  
For students: downloadable programs, simulations, study hints, and more for the calculus-based and algebra and trig-based introductory courses. 

  Physics Songs  
Have fun while you learn physics by singing about it. 
 


   For elementary and secondary schools 


 
  An Astronomy Course for Students Using the Internet  
by Jack Troeger. 

  Chem4Kids  
Also the home of Biology4Kids. 

  Colour Perception  
Some amazing optical illusions. 

  Department of Education Teachers' Guide  
A guide to centers and labs, clearinghouses, and programs supported by the U.S. Department of Education. Read on-line or download it. 

  Discovery Channel School  
Includes a calendar of programming on the Discovery and Learning channels; access to video archives, video previews of "Assignment Discovery" episodes; and an electronic bulletin board for teachers. 

  Educational Guide to Space & Astronomy  
Presented by Leicester University in England. 

  Energy Quest   
Energy Education from the California Department of Energy 

  Holoworld  Extensive source includes gallery of holograms and how to make them. 

  JASON Project VIII: Journey from the Center of the Earth  
Use "telepresence" to take students to geothermal hot spots at Yellowstone National Park and Iceland.  Get lesson plans early. 

  K-12 Science Education Resources  
Bill Beatty's enormous list. He answers questions, too. 

  The USGS and Science Education  
The United States Geological Survey presents lists of resources for teaching and learning the earth sciences at  primary ,  secondary , and  undergraduate  levels, and much more. 

  Modeling Workshop Project  
Four-week workshops for two consecutive summers are open to 140 exceptionally motivated high school teachers who wish to contribute to physics teaching reform. A stipend plus travel, housing, and meal allowance are awarded to each participant.


  NASA Space Place  
Games, animations, projects, and fun facts. 

  NASA  Space Science Education Resource Directory  
Materials at all levels. 

  Posters  
How to get beautiful posters for the classroom. 


  The Science Spot: Kid Zone  
What do you want to explore? 

  The Space Educator's Handbook  
Includes information about NASA, space history, space technology, and pictures and narratives.  You can download movies from the space program's archives. 

  Space Explorers  
A NASA site for bringing space into the classroom. 

  Space.com  
Fun and a bit of education provided by a commercial site. 

  Starchild: A Learning Center for Young Astronomers  
A service of the High Energy Astrophysics Science Archive Research Center at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. 

  A Teacher's Guide to Superconductivity for High School Students  
Including demonstrations, student problems, and classroom experiments, from Oak Ridge National Laboratory. 


  The Why Files:  Science behind the News  

 

   Communications with other teachers 

 
     E-Mail Discussion Groups (Listservs) in Physics and Astronomy  
PHYS-L, for example, is a worldwide group of high school and college physics teachers. 

  Online Physics Demonstration Manuals  at several universities. 


  Socratic Dialog-Inducing (SDI) Labs  

  Teachers Helping Teachers   
Lesson plans and much more, all of it free. 

 

   Newsletters 


 
      Astronomy Education Review  
An online journal featuring new ideas and resources for teaching and outreach in astronomy and space sciences. 

  American Institute of Physics Center for History of Physics  

  American Physical Society Forum on Education  
  American Physical Society Forum on Physics and Society  

  American Physical Society Forum on the History of Physics  

  Astronomical Society of the Pacific Teachers' Newsletter  

  Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal  
The publishers of Skeptical Inquirer  and debunkers of pseudoscience. 

  Currents  
A weekly newsletter from Lawrence Berkeley National Lab. 

  Electronic Newsletter for the History of Astronomy  
Download English translation or the German original. 

  FYI - American Institute of Physics Bulletin of Science Policy News  

  Jonathan's Space Report  
A weekly description of all space launches, including both piloted missions and automated satellites. 

  Physics News Update  
An excellent weekly account of new discoveries.  Browse or search through several years' worth of these. 

  What's New by Bob Park  
Doings in the nation’s capital — one physicist’s viewpoint. 
 

   Organizations 

 
     American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS)  

  American Association of Physics Teachers (AAPT)  

  AAPT Northern Calif/Nevada Section  

  American Physical Society Education and Outreach Programs  

  American Physical Society Forum on the History of Physics  

  Astronomical Society of the Pacific (ASP)  
A good source of educational materials and a free teachers’ newsletter. 

  Contemporary Physics Education Project  
A place to order charts, posters, software, and other resources. 

  International Astronomical Union Commission #46: Astronomy Education  

  National Science Teachers Association  

 

   Institutions 

 
	  The Exploratorium   
Electronic exhibits and resources for teachers, students and science enthusiasts!

	  The Lawrence Hall of Science  Lots of resources for teachers and a great list of "Hot Links."
	
	  National Renewable Energy Laboratory  
	
	  Observatories  
All kinds, many with educational materials. 

	  Planetaria 
	
	  Science Learning Network   
Hands-on science museums in Philadelphia, Portland, Boston, St. Paul, San Francisco, and Miami. 

	  The Smithsonian Institution   
	
	  University Physics and Astronomy Departments  
More than 1600 of them in nearly 100 countries. 
 

   Gateways to more sites 


 

  Astronomical Society of the Pacific's Astronomy Links  


  Catalog of National Astronomy Education Projects  
A catalog of projects in astronomy education, including workshops, curriculum, computer and audio-visual materials, newsletters, student programs, planetarium and amateur astronomy projects, awards and grants. 

  Nano, Quantum & Statistical Mechanics & Thermodynamics Educational Sites  

  The
   Cornell Theory Center Math and Science Gateway  
Links to many excellent resources for grades 9-12. 

  EDU2  
Links to thousands of educational pages in all subjects. 

  
Science Education  
An extensive list at Yahoo. 

  Physical Science Resource Center  
Very extensive site sponsored by the American Association of Physics Teachers. 

  Pedagogical Resources on the Web for Teaching Physics  
A lengthy list by the University of Maryland Physics Education Research Group. 
   
  Physics On-Line  
Includes many links to Canadian sources. 

  Schoolzone  
40,000 educational sites at all levels recommended and annotated by teachers in Britain. 

  Frank Potter's Science Gems  
More than 14,000 of them, sorted by category, subcategory, and grade level. 

  Space Education  
A good list from the Apollo Society. 

  Web Sites for Instructors of Introductory Astronomy Courses  
Excellent list by Andrew Fraknoi. 

 
 
   
  
 
 Please send comments, additions, corrections, and questions to 
  joe.tenn@sonoma.edu   
 
 

 JST  
 
 2011-07-08