Extreme Science | Science Technology | Earth Science 
   

 
 
   
       
     
    
  
  

 
   
   
       Home    |    Animal Kingdom    |    Earth    |    Ocean    |    Resources   |    Space    |    Time    |    Weather    |    About   
   
 
 
   
      
   
      Today is     
   
   
      
       
          
         
           Today's Featured Video 
         
         
              
            See the enormous 
            Blue Whale   
         
         
           Favorites 
         
         
              
            Largest Ocean Carnivore   
         
         
              
            Biggest Carnivorous Fish   
         
         
              
            Biggest Fish   
         
           
                
              Biggest Tsunami   
           
           
                
              Greatest Volcanic Eruption   
           
       
      
   
 
 SCIENCE ROCKS!                

 
 
			 (Oops! It looks like you don't have Flash player 6 installed.  Click here  to go to the Flash download page.) 
	
		
	    
       
 Extreme Science is the place online to find the biggest, baddest, and the best in the world of extremes and learn about the science behind what makes each the most extreme example of its kind. Here you'll find world records in natural science, including  earth science  and the plant and  animal kingdom , as well as  extreme weather records , and much more wild, weird, and out-there stuff. 
 You'll also find the most complete collection of science and technology information and resources available on the Internet, including resources for students working on science fair projects and teachers needing content for science lessons.  
 Choose your favorite subject and prepare to entertain your brain. 
      
     
   
   
  
  

 

         
        
       Where is the 'Twilight Zone'?  What lives there? 
        
        
          
      
   
     
     
       
         VIDEOS 
           Anaconda  
           Anaconda vs. Piranha  
            Giant Mekong Catfish  
            Glacier Collapse  
            Goliath Tarantula  
            Peregrine Falcon Divebomb 
           
       
     
     
          
       
         OCEAN 
          Blue Whale   
          Colossal Squid  
          Deepest Fish  
          Deep Sea Exploration  
          Great White Shark  
          Sailfish  
      
        
         
       
      
          
       
         VOLCANOES 
          Biggest Mountain  
          Geologic History of Earth  
          Giant Caldera  
          Iceland Volcano  
         Longest Mountain Range  
         Plate Tectonics  
        
         
       
      
          
       
         BIZARRE 
          Biggest Wave  
          Creature from the Deep  
          Dead Sea  
          Elephant-Dog Friendship  
          Giant Crystals  
          Sea Serpent  
       
      
   
 
       
   
 
 
   
      Copyright © 1998-2011.  Extreme Science is a registered trademark. All rights reserved.