Science Facts  » Grizzly Bear Facts 

  

 
 
 
 
 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  


 
 
 
 

		
				
				
				
				 
			
				 
					  
					  
						  
					 	
					
					
					
				 
				
				  
		 
		 
  
			
				 
				
				 
				 
					  
				  

				 
					 Email Subscription 
					Facts sent direct to your inbox
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
				 
				
				 
					 Random Fact 
					   


 
				 
				 
		
				
		
				 
				 
				 More Cool Science Links 
				 If you own or run a science website then why not submit it to our teaching sites directory  here  
				 
				 
				  
						  
											
				
				 
				 
				
				

  
 
  
  


 
  
  


				

  

 
		 
			
							
			 
			 	 
						  
						  RSS Feed Subscription  
				 
			 
			
			  Quick Facts 
				 
					  Animal Facts  
  Human Facts  
  Space Facts  
  Weather Facts  
				 
			 
			
			  Categories 
				 
						  Animals 
 
	  Dinosaurs 
 
	  Earth 
 
	  Nature 
 
	  Outer Space 
 
	  People 
 
	  Physics 
 
	  Technology 
 
	  Weather 
 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			    Other Sites 
				 
					  Dinosaur Facts  
  Dinosaurs  
  Discover Science  
  Global Warming Facts  
  Health Facts  
  How Long Does  
  Optical Illusions  
  Random Facts  
  Teacher Sites  
  Teaching English Jobs  
  Technology and Electronics  
  Texas Electricity  
  Tiger Facts  
  Top Teacher Sites  
				 
								
				
			 
			
			  Recent Articles 
			 
					  Deepest Lake In The World ?  
	  Where Did The Word Robot Come From ?  
	  What’s The Fastest Possible Speed ?  
	  The Difference Between Insects And Spiders ?  
	  How Heavy Is The Earth ?  
	  What’s A Google ?  
	  Which Is The Highest Waterfall In The World ?  
	  Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?  
	  How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?  
	  Grizzly Bear Facts  

			 
			 
			
			
			
						
		 
	 


	 
				
  		
			 
			
				 Home ›› Animals ››Grizzly Bear Facts				
			 
				
			
			 
			 
			 
			 Grizzly Bear Facts 
			 Posted By  Zoe Delphy  On October 2, 2008 		
			 
							
				 
				
										
				
					
									 
				
				 
				
												  
							  
										 
				 
			
				 Did you know that the grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis) can weigh up to 800lbs and reach heights of up to 8 foot when standing on its rear legs. With such mass and size you would expect it to be extremely slow but despite such size it can sprint at speeds as high as 40km/h which is faster than an olympic athlete. 
 In terms of behaviour and temperament the grizzly bear is a solitary animal sticking to itself except during mating season. Its reputation of being extremely aggresive is a little exaggerated as in most cases it won’t go out of its way to hunt humans or cause trouble.  
 So why do people fear the grizzly so much ? Well much of its aggressive reputation stems from the fact that it can’t climb trees very well, which is what most bears do to avert danger. This ultimately means that a threatened grizzly is more likely to stand its ground and attack an oncoming threat rather than running and hiding.  
 So despite the stories and the movies, the grizzly in most cases is unlikely to go on aggressive hunting sprees. More so they’re omnivores so will just as happily consume berries, fruits, pine nuts and roots. 
                
              
				
				 
				  
				  
				
				 
	
							 
			 
			 
			
			


	
	 13 Responses to “Grizzly Bear Facts”  
	

	 

	
		 
			 
			Joey  

						  

			
			 Grizzlies are kick ass man, wouldn’t mess with them one bit. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Jane Hawkings  

						  

			
			 That was an interesting read, it really put to light the overall nature of the grizzly, its sad that the movies have given them a bad reputation.  
 Afterall the Grizzly is just a sub-species of the common brown bear. Keep up the great work. 
Yours truly 
Jane 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Roberto  

						  

			
			 Grizzlies are amazing.   
 I remember an 80?s awesome movie about them, was excellent. 
 Nice site. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Robin   

						  

			
			 Great educational website. I have learned a lot from this website 
 Robin 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Ken  

						  

			
			 How large was that bear that was Killed by men or a man with hi powered rifle in Alaska?I heard that it was to be stuffed and put on display at a main airport in Alaska.I also read that it killed at least 2 armed men before being killed.I  Am thinking  that I read a article that it was around 1500-1800 pds but could not find much info about the bear or if it was indeed that big.        ken 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 felicia burch   

						  

			
			 i love your web sight cause itr got me an “A”  in my science class and I love it so much thank you 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Abdul Arshad   

						  

			
			 i am gonna say awesome because as a example grizzly bear is running to catch don’t try to hide because it has a gifted nose can ameel really good i mean really good. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			steve  

						  

			
			 hey did u hear guys hear this one girl got her face tore up buy a bear 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			JAse  

						  

			
			 YEA I THINK THAT THE PEOPLE THAT RUNS AWAY FROM THE GRIZZLY BEAR CAN SET A NEW OLYMPIC RECORD 
 LOL 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Lanie  

						  

			
			 HAHAHA!! TRUE if they release to much adrenaline 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 tatianna   

						  

			
			 hahahaha true if they release to much adrenaline 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Zohaib  

						  

			
			 The worst animal for me is the bear! Sooooooooo dangerous! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			amber  

						  

			
			 i would like to know why do people keep killing these bears? if a bear just decides to wander into a town, you dont have to kill it just shoot it with a tranqulizer and put it some place safe or shoot it with a rubber bullet to make it leave. its sad how people can be soooo creul. 
			 
		 

	
	
	 

 



 Leave a Comment 


 


  
 Name (required)  

  
 Mail (Not Published)(required)  

  
 Website  




    

  
 
 
   
 


				
	 
	
 

	 
			
							
			 
				  
				  
			 
			
			
			  Archives 
				 
					  July 2010  
	  June 2009  
	  October 2008  
	  September 2008  
	  July 2008  
	  June 2008  
	  May 2008  
	  March 2008  
	  February 2008  
	  January 2008  
	  December 2007  
	  October 2007  
	  September 2007  
	  August 2007  
	  July 2007  
	  June 2007  
				 
			 
				
		
		
		 
 

 


 

	 
    
    	  
    	  
    
     

	 
		 Science Facts  
		© 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		Part Of The  Cool Facts  Network