Science Facts  » How Do Camels Survive The Desert ? 

  

 
 
 
 
 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  


 
 
 
 

		
				
				
				
				 
			
				 
					  
					  
						  
					 	
					
					
					
				 
				
				  
		 
		 
  
			
				 
				
				 
				 
					  
				  

				 
					 Email Subscription 
					Facts sent direct to your inbox
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
						 
				 
				
				 
					 Random Fact 
					   


 
				 
				 
		
				
		
				 
				 
				 More Cool Science Links 
				 If you own or run a science website then why not submit it to our teaching sites directory  here  
				 
				 
				  
						  
											
				
				 
				 
				
				

  
 
  
  


 
  
  


				

  

 
		 
			
							
			 
			 	 
						  
						  RSS Feed Subscription  
				 
			 
			
			  Quick Facts 
				 
					  Animal Facts  
  Human Facts  
  Space Facts  
  Weather Facts  
				 
			 
			
			  Categories 
				 
						  Animals 
 
	  Dinosaurs 
 
	  Earth 
 
	  Nature 
 
	  Outer Space 
 
	  People 
 
	  Physics 
 
	  Technology 
 
	  Weather 
 
				 
			 
			
			
			
			    Other Sites 
				 
					  Dinosaur Facts  
  Dinosaurs  
  Discover Science  
  Global Warming Facts  
  Health Facts  
  How Long Does  
  Optical Illusions  
  Random Facts  
  Teacher Sites  
  Teaching English Jobs  
  Technology and Electronics  
  Texas Electricity  
  Tiger Facts  
  Top Teacher Sites  
				 
								
				
			 
			
			  Recent Articles 
			 
					  Deepest Lake In The World ?  
	  Where Did The Word Robot Come From ?  
	  What’s The Fastest Possible Speed ?  
	  The Difference Between Insects And Spiders ?  
	  How Heavy Is The Earth ?  
	  What’s A Google ?  
	  Which Is The Highest Waterfall In The World ?  
	  Most Dangerous Animal In Africa ?  
	  How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?  
	  Grizzly Bear Facts  

			 
			 
			
			
			
						
		 
	 


	 
				
  		
			 
			
				 Home ›› Animals ››How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?				
			 
				
			
			 
			 
			 
			 How Do Camels Survive The Desert ? 
			 Posted By  Zoe Delphy  On October 3, 2008 		
			 
							
				 
				
										
				
					
									 
				
				 
				
												  
							  
										 
				 
			
				 The body of a camel is so amazingly adapted to survival in the desert that it can with stand even the harshest of desert climates. Their biggest strength has to be their ability to survive without food and water for long periods of time. This unique ability stems from their body being able to store fat in their humps and water in the lining of their stomachs. These stores can be used in times of need which is ideal in deserts where both food and water are extremely scarce. 
 Their wide, padded feet grip well on loose sandy soil and stop the camel from sinking into the sand. An insulating wool coat keeps out both the heat of the day and the cold of the night. Hairy eyelashes, ears and slit nostrils keep out the desert dust and sand. If that wasn’t enough camels are also extremely simple about the food they eat, consuming anything from thorny shrubs to desert thistles. 
                
              
				
				 
				  
				  
				
				 
	
							 
			 
			 
			
			


	
	 32 Responses to “How Do Camels Survive The Desert ?”  
	

	 

	
		 
			 
			ellie  

						  

			
			 best 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			katy- marie  

						  

			
			 funnily enough i had to do a poster on camels for a kandoo task for science (its like coursework but easier) thanks 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Hannah Francis  

						  

			
			 Great Info, 
Am in yr 7 and doing a geography assessment task and helped a lot Thanks:) 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Nikita Lily-White  

						  

			
			 the best… 
I am learning more from this site..GREAT!!!??? 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Ross Jones  

						  

			
			 i am not happy with this it does not tell u why camels have big stomachs!!!!      
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Lucy   

						  

			
			 In y7 n doin about camels in science was brill info thanks   
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			mollie  

						  

			
			 im in year 6 and im doing a project and this site has helped alot .thanx 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			abby  

						  

			
			 this relly helps me 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 steven   

						  

			
			 Thanks i had to do a project on camels and how they survive =D 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Rebecca Burnwoods   

						  

			
			 It’s weird that they eat thorny bushes. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			alex  

						  

			
			 thanks a lot this help me in geography project . I got full marks !!!!!!!!!!!!!!TANKS AGAIN 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			josh  

						  

			
			 another fun little thing id that camels have a hump but their actual back (spine) is strait. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Aimee-leigh  

						  

			
			 in yr 7 and am doing and explainationabout ‘ow animals survive in the desert’ this site helpped me alot thnx x 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 dunbar   

						  

			
			 i  luv camels 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			sam  

						  

			
			 cherrse im doin homework and it realy help thanks :p 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			jimmy  

						  

			
			 cool facts helped alot im doing a eglish project for camels 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			boe  

						  

			
			 so cool i needed it for geography class and it came i handy. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 kill justin beiber   

						  

			
			 this site is so awesome and by the way have I mentioned that justin beiber sux and sings like a girl!!! they just made his voice in the studio toned up so that he could be a good singer and famous!! this web page is fantastic, love Jackie!!!! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Sawban  

						  

			
			 hi can you give some information about how camel breeds, lives, looks like and eats 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Oddete  

						  

			
			 Great info! I have to do a debate for school and it helpeda bunch! Keep it up! 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			 Oddete   

						  

			
			 Great info! I had to do a debate for school and it really helped a lot!!!   
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			jessicaaa  

						  

			
			 Oi stop slagging beiber offf youu twatt 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Gabriel Lennon  

						  

			
			 I’m a year 8 I am doing a speech about what ever I want and I chose animals. This was very helpful thanks alot  . 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			lemur1  

						  

			
			 sorry 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			AnimalLoverr  

						  

			
			 I’m angry about how animals are treated in these days everywhere, including camels in Egypt especially.  I loveeee dogs and other animals.  When I hear of any cruelty to animals including camels in Egypt, it makes me want to kill their owners or other people that aren’t doing anything about it!  OMG..you have no idea.  Take what I just said about saving animals and treating them like people, not free rides or toys. 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			elennn  

						  

			
			 this has helped me a lot for my exam!!   thank you xxx 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Roanna Ghest  

						  

			
			 THANKS   Im in yr 7 at da mo and this info really helped my homework     XD   :O :L   ,,,,,,,  
 HOW DO THEY KEEP COOL IN DA DESERT? PLEASE REPLY ASAP I REALLY NEED THE INFO  
 Thanks-a-bunch 
 <3  
 xox 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Heather  

						  

			
			 Thank you so much. Am in year eight and doing a geography project. SO much help! xx 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			alison jade  

						  

			
			 thanks a lot I do my school home work (how do camels survive) 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			bianca  

						  

			
			 omg this is a fantastic website cheers to who ever made it   
 i need to no how they get food ?? 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			Shannon  

						  

			
			 This was alot of help, im in year 9 and doing a small homework on what our teacher call’s ‘collin the camel’ We needed to know at the minimum 3 things a camel does to adapt in the desert, and this did help alot, so thanks, i guess   xxxx……. 
 …..By the way, i got full marks on my homework   x 
			 
		 

	
	
		 
			 
			abbey  

						  

			
			 i am in s1 and we had to do a homework sheet on our farourite anial ans this website helped meh alot thanks  :) 
			 
		 

	
	
	 

 



 Leave a Comment 


 


  
 Name (required)  

  
 Mail (Not Published)(required)  

  
 Website  




    

  
 
 
   
 


				
	 
	
 

	 
			
							
			 
				  
				  
			 
			
			
			  Archives 
				 
					  July 2010  
	  June 2009  
	  October 2008  
	  September 2008  
	  July 2008  
	  June 2008  
	  May 2008  
	  March 2008  
	  February 2008  
	  January 2008  
	  December 2007  
	  October 2007  
	  September 2007  
	  August 2007  
	  July 2007  
	  June 2007  
				 
			 
				
		
		
		 
 

 


 

	 
    
    	  
    	  
    
     

	 
		 Science Facts  
		© 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		Part Of The  Cool Facts  Network