Healthy Facts   

  

 
 
 
 
 


	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 

 
  
 
 
 
 

 


 
 
 
		  Healthy Facts  
		 Healthy Eating for Healthy Living 
 

		
	 
	 
			  Home  
			 
     

   
  

 
	 

			
									 
			     
				  Facts about Junk Food  
				
				 
				 
					 
 
  
 
 An estimate suggests that Frito Lay sells one billion bags of Cheetos per year 
 
 
 
 Consumption of junk food provides little or no nutrition due to unhealthy ingredients. Junk food is often considered unhealthy especially when eaten regularly. Credit for the phrase ‘junk food’ is given to Michael Jacobson who coined it in 1972 to describe food that provides no nutritional value. Junk food is usually food that can be obtained conveniently in ready-to-eat form such as a bag of chips or food from a ‘fast food’ restaurant. 
 Facts about Junk Food: 
 
 Paul Johnson and Paul Kenny of Scripps Research Center performed a study which concluded that junk food has similar addictive qualities as that of heroin. 
 The glue on envelopes and postage stamps, corn dextrin, is also commonly used to as a thickener in junk food. 
 There is an increase in obesity, heart disease, high blood pressure, certain cancers, tooth decay, and other diseases by consuming junk food. 
 Pregnant or breast feeding mothers who eat junk food are more likely to raise children who will have a higher risk obesity, diabetes, raised cholesterol, and high blood fat. 
 Hostess produces 500 million Twinkies per year. 
 The creamy center of a Twinkie isn’t really cream at all but rather its made of mostly Crisco. 
 More than two billion dollars is generated through sales of candy for Halloween. 
 
 So the next time you are considering a snack for yourself or for your children, consider something a little (alot) more  healthy . 
				 
		
				 Posted in  Snacks  |    1 Comment »  
			 
	
									 
			     
				  Healthy Weight Chart  
				
				 
				 
									 
		
				 Posted in  Weight  |    No Comments »  
			 
	
									 
			     
				  How Healthy is Sushi for you?  
				
				 
				 
									 
		
				 Posted in  Meat ,   Seafood  |    No Comments »  
			 
	
									 
			     
				  How Long Are Leftovers Good For?  
				
				 
				 
									 
		
				 Posted in  Leftovers  |    1 Comment »  
			 
	
									 
			     
				  The Correct Temperatures for Cooking Meat  
				
				 
				 
									 
		
				 Posted in  Meat  |    No Comments »  
			 
	
									 
			     
				  Healthiest Ways to Cook Meat  
				
				 
				 
									 
		
				 Posted in  Meat  |    No Comments »  
			 
	
									 
			     
				  Don’t Let Your Salad Turn Unhealthy  
				
				 
				 
									 
		
				 Posted in  Salads  |    No Comments »  
			 
	
									 
			     
				  Healthy Snacks for Children  
				
				 
				 
									 
		
				 Posted in  Children ,   Snacks  |    2 Comments »  
			 
	
										
		 
			  « Previous Entries  
			  
		 
		
	
	 

 

 





  Categories  	  Children  (1)
 
	  Leftovers  (1)
 
	  Meat  (3)
 
	  News  (1)
 
	  Other Health Tips  (13)
 
	  Salads  (1)
 
	  Seafood  (1)
 
	  Snacks  (2)
 
	  Weight  (1)
 
  




  Archives 
	 
			  February 2010  
	  January 2010  
	  September 2009  
	  August 2009  
	  March 2009  
	  August 2008