Tiger Facts - Facts About Tigers 

  

 
 
 
 
 

 
  
 


	
	  
 
 
 
 

		    
			 
  
  
		
		 
	
	
		 
		 
		 
 		
			
		
		 
		
		 
			 
        				  Home  
						  About  
						  Contact  
						
						

			 
			
			 
					  
					  Subscribe Via RSS  
			 
			
		 
		
		
		 
		 
		
  
 
	Please install Flash® and turn on Javascript.
 

		 
		
		 
			  
  
		 		
	 
			
	
	
	
		
 




 
	 
	
		  Recent Articles  
	 


	
			
					 
				
					 
					
					 
					
					 
						  The Hidden Tiger Illusion  
						 Just for fun check out this really cool illusion of a tiger. It took us a while to figure this out but see if you can find the hidden tiger ? Let us know how you did. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					
					 
					
					 
						  Tiger Pictures  
						 Some great pictures and wallpapers shot by Michael Nichols for the national geographic. Head down their to find some more great tiger facts and articles. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					
					 
					
					 
						  White Tiger Facts  
						 All White tigers are actually just Bengal tigers which have inherited 2 copies of a recessive gene controlling skin pigmentation. Unlike albino tigers which are 100% white with no stripes, white tigers still carry their black stripes, making them almost identical to an orange bengal tiger except for their unusual color. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					
					 
					
					 
						  White Tiger Pictures  
						 Another collection of great pictures but this time showcasing the white tiger. Enjoy the photos use them as a desktop background or however else you like. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					
					 
					
					 
						  Extinct Tigers  
						 As you may have already guessed tigers are some of the most endangered species of our time. To raise your awareness about the seriousness of the situation, and help spread the word about how real this danger is, we’re going to list some of the already extinct tiger subspecies. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					
					 
					
					 
						  The Sumatran Tiger  
						 Sumatran tigers are one of the more famous categories of wild tigers. Their name is derived from where they’re found most i.e the island of Sumatra which is part of the republic of Indonesia. The bad news is that Sumatran tigers are also hugley endangered with the total population not exceeding five hundred. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					
					 
					
					 
						  The Siberian Tiger  
						 Siberian tigers are one of the most critically endangered tiger species in the world. They can mainly be found in the east-most regions of the Siberia region of Russia, which explains their name origins. These lovely tigers are often called north China tigers. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					
					 
					
					 
						  The Bengal Tiger  
						 Bengal Tigers form the largest subspecies of tigers in the world. Most commonly found in India and Bangladesh, they are the ‘national animal’ of both these countries. Living in grasslands and in rainforests, they can weight up to 220kg but have nearly been driven to extinction. 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					
					 
					
					 
						  Introduction To Tigers - Panthera Tigris  
						 Tigers those big cats with the black stripes are just one of the many species of large cats found around the world. These beautiful animals possess not only grace and sophistication but razor sharp claws and a killer instinct to match. To lean more about the tiger read on! 
					 
					 
			 
					 
				
					 
					
					 
					
					 
						  The South China Tiger  
						 South China tigers are a tiger subspecies that can only be found in the very narrow forest areas of south east China. Like most tigers their numbers are dwindling but the South China tiger if not protected will probably be the next tiger species to go extinct. 
					 
					 
			 
				 
		
	
	 

	 
		 
			
						
						
  Tiger Categories 
				
				
				 
						  Bengal Tigers 
 
	  Extinct Tigers 
 
	  Fun & Games 
 
	  Siberian Tigers 
 
	  South China Tigers 
 
	  Sumatran Tigers 
 
	  Tiger Facts 
 
	  Tiger Pictures 
 
	  White Tigers 
 
				 
			 
			
			
			

						   Friends 
				 
					  Animal Facts  
  Earthquake Facts  
  Tiger Wallpapers  
  Weather Facts  
				 
			 
				
						
			
			
						
				 
				 
				
				
				 
				 
			
		 
	 
 
 
 
 
 

	 
		 Tiger Facts  
		© 2011 All Rights Reserved.  
		
	 
	 
		 Back to Top