Synergy Learning 
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  


  
  

 
 
 
         
           
           
              
           
                   
         
	  				         
         
           
  
   
  Search this site:  
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
         

	 
         Login    Register   
	     

       

  

 
  
       
       
           Connect  Magazine  
  Professional Development  
  Resources  
  Subscribers  
  Blogs  
  Donate  
         
      
  

 
  
 
 
						  


     Dedicated to supporting schools, teachers, and families with challenging science, math, and technology learning for students   
 
 
 
																				        
   
      
  
        Connect Magazine  
  
  
   
     
	Our online magazine is a resource for today's teaching, publishing the work of innovative teachers nationwide. You will find text, video and audio clips, and links to resources within thoughtful articles on K-8 math, science, and technology. 
 
	Write for Connect!      Topics and writers' guidelines for 2011-2012!     
 
	Nov/Dec 2011: The People of Math and Science 
 
	 SUBSCRIBE NOW!  
 
	 
 
	 View Connect Sample  
   

  
   
 
   

   
      
  
        Professional Development  
  
  
   
     Synergy Learning Professional Development is designed specifically for the schools and districts that we serve. We incorporate inquiry, problem solving and differentiation throughout all of our programs. 
 Find details and examples here.  
 
   

  
   
 
  
        Try This!    
  
  
   
     
	Random Mechanical "Stuff" 
 
	Provide kids with some simple materials: Brass paper fasteners, card stock or oak tag, sticky-backed Velcro, plastic straws, string, tape, rubber bands, Lego wheels, plasticine, and old CDs. Give them the challenge to create something that can move, either to lift something, to travel down or up a slope, or to cover a distance. Looking at toys, wind-up or otherwise, can help to inspire. A primer on simple machines would be great instruction to provide as scaffolding for experimentation. The work of Theo Jansen can also inspire:  http://www.strandbeest.com . 
 
	    
   

  
   
 
   

   
      
  
        Resources  
  
  
   
     
	 
 
 
		 Connect Magazine  
 
		 Article Archives  
 
		 Purchase Back Issues  
 
		 Instructional Links  
 
 
   

  
   
 
  
        Blogs  
  
  
   
        Resourcefulness  
  Samsø: What's not to love?  
  Time and Money: Where are they in the NCTM Standards?  
  The Classroom as Permaculture  
  No time for science; no money for books.  
  The Implicit Planning Opportunities of Snowdays  
  What is Bill Gates Doing Back in School?  
  One Way Trip to Mars: Who’s First?  
  Learning Styles: Theory and Practice  
    more     

  
   
 
   
 
 
						
  

  
  




 
  
 
 
  


     Synergy Learning International                               About Us                                         Contact Us                                      Privacy Policy  
 
 
 
  

  
  Theme by  Danetsoft  and  Danang Probo Sayekti  inspired by  Maksimer