Flowers Delivered - Send Flowers Online, ProFlowers Flower Delivery
                                

     

         
  	                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              800.580.2913                                                                                                                                                         Flowers • Plants • Gifts                                                                                                                                                           Track Your Order            Your Account                                                                Wedding                                                                                                           International Delivery                    United Kingdom    Canada    Rest of the World                                                                                                  Need it         Tomorrow ?                                                                                                                                                                              Christmas                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Best Sellers                                                                                                                                                                                    Centerpieces                                                                                                                                                                                    Christmas Decorations                                                                                                                                                                                    Flowers                                                                                                                                                                                    Gift of the Month Club                                                                                                                                                                                    Gourmet Gifts & Sweets                                                                                                                                                                                    Multi-Day Gifts                                                                                                                                                                                    Plants                                                                                                                                                                                    Wreaths                                                                                                                                                                                    More Christmas Gifts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Birthday                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Best Sellers                                                                                                                                                                                    Birthdays for Mom                                                                                                                                                                                    Birthdays for Wife                                                                                                                                                                                    Birthday for Friend                                                                                                                                                                                    Gift Baskets & Sweets                                                                                                                                                                                    Birthday Plants                                                                                                                                                                                    Flowers of the Month Club                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Occasion                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hanukkah - 12/20 - 12/28                                                                                                                                                                                    Christmas - 12/25                                                                                                                                                                                    Anniversary                                                                                                                                                                                    Birthday                                                                                                                                                                                    Baby & Kids Gifts                                                                                                                                                                                    Business Gifting                                                                                                                                                                                    Funeral                                                                                                                                                                                    Get Well Flowers                                                                                                                                                                                    Housewarming                                                                                                                                                                                    Just Because                                                                                                                                                                                    Local Florist Delivery                                                                                                                                                                                    Love & Romance                                                                                                                                                                                    Sympathy                                                                                                                                                                                    Thank You Flowers                                                                                                                                                                                    Winter Collection                                                                                                                                                                                    Wedding Flowers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Flowers                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Best Sellers                                                                                                                                                                                    Carnations                                                                                                                                                                                    Daisies                                                                                                                                                                                    Florist Delivery                                                                                                                                                                                    Flowers of the Month Club                                                                                                                                                                                    Iris                                                                                                                                                                                    Lilies                                                                                                                                                                                    Mixed Bouquets                                                                                                                                                                                    New Flowers                                                                                                                                                                                    Orchids & Exotic Flowers                                                                                                                                                                                    Premium Flowers                                                                                                                                                                                    Roses                                                                                                                                                                                    Sunflowers                                                                                                                                                                                    Tulips                                                                                                                                                                                    Wreaths                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Plants                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Best Sellers                                                                                                                                                                                    Bonsai & Tropical Plants                                                                                                                                                                                    Centerpieces                                                                                                                                                                                    Flowering Plants                                                                                                                                                                                    Green Plants                                                                                                                                                                                    Orchids & Exotic Plants                                                                                                                                                                                    Potted Garden Plants                                                                                                                                                                                    Rose Plants                                                                                                                                                                                    Seasonal Plants                                                                                                                                                                                    Wreaths                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Specials                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Flower Discounts & Specials                                                                                                                                                                                    Dinner & Flowers                                                                                                                                                                                    Employee Favorites                                                                                                                                                                                    Media Favorites                                                                                                                                                                                    Multi-Day Gifts                                                                                                                                                                                    New & Fresh                                                                                                                                                                                    Pink Ribbon Collection                                                                                                                                                                                    Teddy Bears & More                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Gourmet Gifts                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Best Sellers                                                                                                                                                                                    Cake Pops                                                                                                                                                                                    Cakes, Cookies & Brownies                                                                                                                                                                                    Chocolate Gifts                                                                                                                                                                                    Cookie Bouquets                                                                                                                                                                                    Fruit Baskets                                                                                                                                                                                    Fruit of the Month Gifts                                                                                                                                                                                    Gifts Baskets                                                                                                                                                                                    Gourmet Dipped Strawberries                                                                                                                                                                                    Mrs. Fields Cookies                                                                                                                                                                                    Organic Fruit Delivery                                                                                                                                                                                    Spa Baskets                                                                                                                                                                                    Wine Gifts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Floral Tips                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Flower Articles                                                                                                                                                                                    Flower Blog                                                                                                                                                                                    Christmas Ideas                                                                                                                                                                                    Where to Hang Wreaths                                                                                                                                                                                    Christmas Gift Ideas from Stars                                                                                                                                                                                    Holiday Hostess Gift Ideas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Same Day                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Birthday                                                                                                                                                                                    Funeral                                                                                                                                                                                    Get Well                                                                                                                                                                                    Sympathy                                                                                                                                                                                    Flowers                                                                                                                                                                                    Gift Baskets                                                                                                                                                                                    Plants                                                                                                                                                                                    Luxury Collection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Search                                                                                                                                 BOOKMARK THIS SITE  |  SITE FEEDBACK                                                                                                                     
         

         
            


 
    
	 
        



        
  Previous  
  Next  
   
 
	
			 
				    
			 
		
 
 

	 
    

    
     
		  



 

 
	 
		  
	 
	 
		                    
	 
	  
	 
		 
		 Santa’s Stocking  
		 
		 
			  
			 $34.99 
		 
		 
			  
		 
	 
 

	 
    

      
	
    
	 
	    



      

	        
	 
	
    
	
	 
        

 
	 
		 
			  
		 
		 
			  
              
		 
		 
			24 Christmas Lights Roses
		 
		 
			
			$29.97
		 

          
	 
 

	 

	
     
		

 
	 
		 
			  
		 
		 
			  
              
		 
		 
			Snowflakes and Embers
		 
		 
			
			$49.99
		 

          
	 
 

	 
	

	
	 
		



      


     
    
    
      

    
     
        

 

     
    

      

	
    

 

         

         
            

 
    

 
	 
		                                     Sign Up For Email Savings                              BOOKMARK THIS SITE                             SIGN UP FOR CATALOG                                          SITE FEEDBACK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ABOUT US  AFFILIATE PROGRAM  BUSINESS GIFTING & SERVICES  CAREERS  CONTACT US  CUSTOMER SERVICE  ETHICAL LABOR STANDARDS                       FLOWER CARE  FLOWER GUIDES  INTERNATIONAL  PRESS ROOM  PRIVACY POLICY  REMINDER SERVICE  SITE MAP  TERMS OF USE                     


    pzb-2,prx-4,xpa-1,pse-1,pfb-9,prh-1,zzd-1,pku-2,phl-2,pfl-8,prj-1,zzh-2,psa-2,pfa-3,pxa-2,pmt-3,xpb-1,pks-3,pbc-1,pff-1,prg-1,ntc-1,pkt-2,ntd-1,phr-2,nte-2,pkv-2,mpsmediapersonalitysplit-1,ppv-1,pol-1,nta-2,prk-2,ntb-2,zzg-2,pzc-2,pnf-6,pzd-2,apg-1,prz-1,pmb-1,xpc-1,psr-2,pem-1,pmm-2,pza-2

 
     Shop Our Family of Brands 
      
      
      
      
      
	  
      
 

    ONLY ONE PROMOTIONAL OFFER PER ORDER. - PROMOTIONAL OFFERS CANNOT BE COMBINED.                           Discount does not apply to gift cards or certificates, same-day or international delivery, shipping and handling, taxes,               or third-party hosted products (e.g. wine, wedding flowers).  Discount will appear upon checkout and cannot be combined               with other offers or discounts.  Product must be a floral bouquet to receive the free glass vase discount.

 ProFlowers® - Direct from the Fields® ©1998-2011 Provide Commerce, Inc. All rights reserved. 

             

 Our Roses Awarded "Best Value" by the Wall Street Journal - Feb '06. 

   

		  

  

  
  


  


  
	 
 


     
         ProFlowers Quality    While we offer  cheap flowers , this means quality at a great value. ProFlowers has an unbridled passion for farm fresh flower delivery… and offering flowers at very competitive prices. From the time our flowers and plants are freshly plucked from the soil to the time they arrive at your doorstep, office, hospital room or elsewhere, our experts take great strides to ensure that you receive only the freshest, most beautiful flowers possible, whether they're get well flowers, thank you flowers,  birthday flowers , or  Sweetest Day Gifts      So what makes ProFlowers different? Well foremost, although we’re an online flower shop, ProFlowers works directly with professional growers. Our flowers are fresher than  florists ’ because florists are actually  third-party resellers. We send flowers direct; direct as in, from our fields where they’ve been sewed and reaped, to you… no middlemen, no retailers or third  parties. This means less time between the flower fields and your doorstep. And less time between when flowers are cut and when you receive them only improves  the quality; it also ensures you a longer bloom time. Who doesn’t love to watch the beautiful blooming lifecycle of a lone rose or an entire bountiful flower bouquet of wondrous beauty?     In fact, that‘s the second differentiating factor: the ProFlowers freshness promise on every flower delivery we make. ProFlowers’ freshness guarantee on deliveries is unparalleled - we promise freshness for seven days after your arrangement arrives or it will be replaced! That’s how serious we are about bringing you freshness, quality and value.     Another factor contributing to our terminal uniqueness is our expertise in your city. Yep, we’re experts in whatever city you live in, making it easy to traverse the boundaries that other florist delivery services have in place.  Even if you think   you live in the middle of nowhere, we’re quite familiar with rural flower delivery and it’s unique needs; we’ll come  to you anyways!    So order flowers   online today with ProFlowers and experience for yourself successful floral delivery service with personality and panache!      Flower Delivery Across the USA    With over 10 years of expertise, ProFlowers strives to be the best online  flower delivery service in the US  and has millions of satisfied customers nationwide.   Whether you're looking for   New York flower delivery  services, or you want to send   Los Angeles flowers , we service every state from Washington, to   Utah , to Florida, and every major city, from   Seattle  to  Miami  plus all towns and rural areas in between. If you or someone you know lives in a rural area lacking floral services, ProFlowers is an excellent home flower delivery service because chances are we’ve already been there.  For nationwide flower delivery, buy flowers online from ProFlowers for delivery for award-winning quality, and that fantastic 7-day freshness guarantee.     Fast Flower Delivery & Easy Payment    Things come up quickly, and ProFlowers understands. That’s why we offer overnight flower delivery for those who need it quick. We even offer same day flower delivery.  From the second your order is placed, our team works quickly to review and fulfill it. When it’s a question of time, choose the right flower company - ProFlowers when you need a last minute flower delivery. We also make buying flower easy. Send flowers with Paypal, Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover Card, Diners Club, and JCB.  We’re also a Bill Me Later florist.    Stunning and Unique Flower Arrangements    Throughout the year, our floral designers work to create completely new floral designs, with thoughtful, imaginative, and fun themes. Each bouquet is carefully crafted to invoke  the sentiments you wish to convey to your recipient. From a traditional bouquet of  red roses  with baby’s breath and greenery, to a spin on standard 12 or 24 count with our  18 roses  an elegant display incorporating bicolor roses   and  fall hues, you can send roses, tulips, daisies and more that are as diverse as your expressions. With hundreds of different kinds of flowers available for delivery at ProFlowers, an award-winning online florist of choice, the possibilities are endless. Plus, our selection of vases can help put that extra touch   you’re looking for on any bouquet.     Our outstanding designs have been mentioned among many publications. ProFlowers has been featured in People Magazine, InStyle Magazine, US Weekly, and The Wall Street Journal. We  design some of the most spectacular floral arrangements, plants you can buy: see for yourself why we're the best at what we do!  Community and Resources     We provide valuable resources to help our customers learn more about flowers and gifting, ranging from how-to articles to interesting facts about flowers and nature. Check out our recently published  directory of Botanical Gardens , find    ProFlowers on Facebook  and     Twitter  to see what’s new, read floral tips, and get  ProFlowers coupons  and deals including  flowers under 20 dollars  and  flowers under 30 dollars .