Science Explained - your review of science you want to know!  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  Welcome to Science Explained  
On these pages you can learn about the exciting things going on in the world of science. Anyone interested in expanding their knowledge of nature and the universe will find this website useful. 
  

   
 
    
Hi!  I'm Dr Jamie Love. (Yes, I'm really
called "Dr Love", so stop laughing!) I have a PhD in
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. I also have many
years of experience teaching a wide variety of science subjects, from Astronomy to Zoology, to a wide variety of students, from teenagers to medical students. 
 
I created Science Explained to address the needs of those who want a deeper understanding of the world of science.  Here I've posted "science features" which highlight a specific topic in the news.  I assume no prior knowledge so no one will be left behind. After reading each feature you should have a deep enough understanding of the science and technology that you should be able to intelligently discuss the research, sometimes even the specifics of the research paper itself!
      
 
 
Now - On with the Science! 
 

 Choose a hyperlink to go to the science feature.
  
 
 The discovery of water on the Moon could launch our civilization into space! Learn why  Moon water  could be our ticket to the solar system!.
 How was water on the Moon discovered? Learn about NASA's &QUOT;water detector&QUOT;,  Lunar Prospector , and how it could detect water ithout landing on the Moon. 
  Flu viruses  are &QUOT;cheaters&QUOT; in the evolution game because they use lots of genetic &QUOT;tricks&QUOT; like recombinant genetics. Here you'll learn about them with a focus on the flu virus genetics, reproduction, structure and immunology.
 Folks eager to learn about  swine or avian (chicken) flu  and epidemics can go immediately to that page. 
 The  cloning of Dolly  the sheep can be used to illustrate important concepts in cell biology and developmental biology. You know the hype, now learn the science behind Dolly's origin. 
 In a follow up, I have written about the  life and death of Dolly  which answers questions from readers and sets many rumors to rest.
 The  Montserrat volcano  is a typical volcano and thus a fine example from which we can learn about this important process in
geology. A reader wrote to the editor of Science Explained asking about the source of all the heat. Learn about the  origin of volcanoes  from the answers.
 The evidence for " Martian fossils " is a story of
chemistry and chemical analysis. Here's the evidence explained
for you to understand and evaluate.
 The &QUOT;Night Skies&QUOT; for each month and Astronomy Lessons are available at Science Explained's  Astronomy Page .
 
      
 
 
  
  
 
 
      
If you have a comment or question please feel free to send a
 Letter to the Editor .
 I can't promise to answer all your questions or address all your
comments, but I'll post a few particularly good ones here.
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search:
 
 All Products
 Books
 Popular Music
 Classical Music
 Video
 Toys
 Electronics
 
 
 
Enter keywords... 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
         
 

  
  
      
 Hit Counter