My IP Address Lookup and GeoTargeting - Community Geotarget IP Project - domain to IP lookup, what country, city IP addresses map to - IP Trace 

  
  

  
   
   

 
   
   

 
   
   

 
 
 
    My IP Address Lookup and GeoTargeting Community Geotarget IP Project Ð what country, city IP addresses map to 
 

 
 
          IP Address Lookup  
          API Ê 
          Data  
          Contribute  
				  Forum  
          FAQ  
          About  
				  Ecommerce  
 
 
 
 
	 
		 Domain to IP or Host name lookup 
		 
			    
		 

		 
			Host name: ip65-46-142-190.z142-46-65.customer.algx.net.
 
			IP address:  65.46.142.190 
			Location: UNITED STATES ( change )  
			Are you an ISP / host?  Update an entire block  
					  

		 
			  
		 

		 About 
		 
		Hostip.info is a community-based project to geolocate IP addresses, making the database freely available (see below) but it needs you to put in your city to make it work. It only takes 10 seconds, and you'll get a warm fuzzy feeling of 'doing the right thing' :-)  Try the example to the right for an IP Trace, or to Lookup IP Addresses.  
		We now have ~9,121,440 entries in the database! 
		 

		 
		  
		 

		 Available on iTunes: 
		    

		 Firefox Plugin: 
		 
			Displays IP Trace information when you hover over a link. 
			Hostipfox 0.4.3.9  (download)  
			Source:  git://github.com/bfolkens/hostipfox-firefox-plugin.git  
			Bug reports:  open a ticket  
		 
		  
		 

		 Put this on Your Website (Easily) 
		 
		 
			  HOWTO put an IP Address Lookup flag in your website  
			  HOWTO put an IP Address Lookup map applet in your website  
			  HOWTO do an IP Address Lookup using a shell script  
		 
		 

		 Tools 
		 
			Check the speed of your connection. 

  
 
Speed Test requires at least version 7 of Flash.  Please update your client .
 
  
  
  




			Where do people come from? Yesterday's Traffic 
			   
			 Geographic IP Address Traffic Map 
		 
	 
	 Ê 
	 
		 
  
  
		 

		 Commercial Geodatabases 
		 
		 
			  MaxMind 
					 If you're looking for a commercial option, this database maintains a great level of accuracy.
			 
			  Change Your IP Address 
					 Use a virtual private network to create a secure connection anywhere you connect to the Internet. 
			 
		 
		 

		 Other interesting projects 
		 
		 
			  Business Reference  Reference for Business 
			  1911 Encyclopedia Britannica  
			  Brief Biographies  
			  Library Index  Comprehensive Library Reference Material 
			  U.S. University Directory  
			  How Products are Made  How stuff is manufactured 
			  Medical & Health Encyclopedia  
			  Blog Directory  
			  Company Histories  - Hundreds of Company Profiles 
			  Strange Questions  - Trivia, Strange Questions, and Answers 
		 
		 


   

		 Link to Us 
		 
		Do you use hostip?  Please show us your support by linking to this website.  
		 
		 
<a href="http://www.hostip.info">
My IP Address Lookup
</a>
		 
		 

		 
			  
		  

  
  

	 
 
 
 

   


 
 
 
 
 
 
	 
		 Site Search Engine 
	 
 
 
	    
	 
		 
	 
	 
		 
	 
 
 
 


 Licensed under the  GPL  


  
  
 
  
 



  

  states covered  -  countries covered