Custom Curriculum 
  
 
 

 
  
  
 
   
     MSNucleus.org 
     
        
           Go To... 
           Home 
           General 
           Curriculum 
           Slideshows 
           Watersheds 
           Classes 
           Catalog 
           Contacts 
           Search... 
           
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
     
       
 

Need
curriculum developed for your school district?

 

 Our nation?s children are
not living up to their potential in science.  Complaining will not
help students achieve success in the world market.  Action is the
answer!  Locating new science programs that will guarantee results
are hard to find.
 
 Implementing new science
standards is difficult.  After 18 years of extensive research on content,
process, and implementation the Integrating Science, Math, and Technology
curriculum was born. The curriculum focuses on the development of science
content that progressively increases children?s understanding of science
throughout the grades. The   results of our research 
can
be found on our website.
 The 
I. Science MaTe  (K-6)  is a 34 week program per grade level. 
Every year students learn fundamental content in Applied Science, Universe
Cycle, Plate Tectonic Cycle, Rock Cycle, Water Cycle, and Life Cycle. 
  I.
Science MaTe(Secondary)  program provides two hands-on labs per week
for a semester of Biological Sciences, Earth Sciences, Physical Sciences,
and Process Skills.
 CUSTOMIZING CURRICULUM
 Our research on student?s
comprehension of science, helps us create customized hands-on curriculum
designed
to your school district.  As  consultants, we assess your district
and then create an action plan to improve
performance of  both  teachers and students.

 IMPLEMENTING SCIENCE
THROUGH TECHNOLOGY
 We can show your district
how technology can make  grading, assessing, and delivering content,
exciting and
easy within a classroom.   See our demonstration labs to experience
the advantages of  electronic textbooks, internet access, and digital
presentations. Affordable technology is at your finger tips to provide your
students with marketable and life-long skills.

 TEACHER WORKSHOPS
  MSN staff conducts
customized science and math workshops for teachers of all levels. 
Workshops are hands-on and provide instructions on how to effectively teach
students through learning science content. Classroom
management is also emphasized.
  
 PRICES:


We help districts use various funding sources, including grants.
We also can provide materials to go along with the curriculum, at about
half the price of most science retailers.  We are a 501(c)3 organization
and our funds go into helping schools get science into schools.
         CONTACT:
 Dr.
Joyce R. Blueford
  blueford@msnucleus.org 
 (510)
790-6284
 fax
(510) 790-6089