Welcome To Focus Educational 
 
 
 

	 

		  



		



		


  
  
  

 
  


  
     



	 



		

		 



			  



			

			 



				

				 



					 Home 
     Upgrades 
     Resellers 
     About Us 
     Contact 
     FAQ's 
     VLE SCORM 
     Learning Zone 



				 

				



				

				 



					


				 

				

			

			 

			

			
			

			 


				

				 



					

					 



						

						 



							


						 

						



					 

					



					  



					PRODUCTS


					

					 

						 

							 

								 
 
 Climate Change 
 
 
 Design Technology 
 
 
 Science 
 
 
 Bee-Bot 
 
 
 Geography 
 
 
 Early Years & Primary 
 
 
 Cross-Curricular 
 
 
 Automata & Model Kits 
 
 
 K'NEX Kits 
 
 

							 

						 

					 

					



					  



					
 
 Download Brochure 
 








 

 
 
  Privacy Policy  
  Terms & Conditions  
 
 

 




				 

				



				

				 



					 

						  

					 



					  



					

					 


						 

						   Unique Software and Learning Platform Resources for Early Years, Primary and Secondary education. 
						  	    
						  	
						   Focus Educational is a leading UK publisher of   Design Technology  and  Science  software and VLE learning platform resources. 

 Choose from three versions: PC software, VLE SCORM packages or via the Focus eLearning Server. 
 Learning Platform VLE SCORM packages are available for most Focus software titles. Try our our   Free Sample  SCORM packages.  
 A hosted online version can also be accessed via the  Focus eLearning Server : Receive unlimited access  from only £99.95. No installation or maintenance required. 

 Windows 7 software  upgrades  are now available. 

 A free 'Delivery by Download' option is now available for all eLearning products. Visit the  Bee-Bot Learning Zone  and find out all about our award winning Bee-Bot software. 
 




   

 
    

 
  Focus on Climate Change  
Licences start from: £ 29.95
 Climate Change: Energy & Environment software and VLE SCORM package provides a balanced cross-curricular view of the issues that are of concern to us all, encourages thought about life style choices and suggests ways in which we can all do our bit to conserve the Earths energy resources. 
 
Perfect for whole class whiteboard teaching and as an individual study aid. This resource is available as an installable PC program, VLE Learning Platform SCORM package or via the Focus eLearning web server. 
 
Topics examined include: What is Energy?, Evidence of Climate Change, Energy Use, Types of Fuel, Renewable Energy, Non-Renewable Energy, Waste Management, Recycling, Water, Carbon Footprint, Interactive Quizzes and Activities 
 
Available in Spanish, Greek and English. Suitable for KS2, KS3 and GCSE. 
 
    
 

 

  
 
 

 
    

 
  Design Technology: Metals Manufacturing Processes  
Licences start from: £ 29.95
 Metals Manufacturing Processes software program and VLE Learning Platform SCORM package examines the main techniques that a Design Technology student will come across when studying Product Design, Engineering or Resistant Materials at GCSE or A Level. An excellent way to bring examples of industrial practice into a Design Technology classroom. 
 
Perfect for whiteboard teaching and as an individual study aid. This resource is available as an installable PC program, VLE Learning Platform SCORM package or via the Focus eLearning web server. 
 
    
 

 

  
 
 

 
    

 
  Bee-Bot: Lesson Activities 2  -  2012 version   
Licences start from: £ 29.95
 New Features include:  
   • Shell Designer Module       • On-screen Mat Creator          
   • Bee-Bot Jacket Printer       • Audio Playback of Activity Instructions 
 
Focus on Bee-Bot: Lesson Activities  2.3 is a cross-curricular interactive program based on the popular Bee-Bot programmable floor robot.The resource is an excellent starting point for teaching control, directional language and programming to young children. It is suitable for both individual study and whole class whiteboard teaching. 
 
Find out how to use the software by visiting the   Bee-Bot Learning zone.  
 
Bee-Bot Lesson Activities 2 is based on eight well-known TTS cross-curricular activity mats including: Farmyard, Seaside, Fairy Tale, Katie Morag, Community, World Map, UK Map, Bee-Bot's Home. 
 
The software includes a range of activities for eight Bee-Bot cross-curricular activity mats. Challenges are solved by programming sequences of moves on-screen with feed-back given when tasks have been completed. Users can create their own on-screen activity mats and build and save 3D Bee-Bot worlds. Inexperienced readers can listen to recordings of the activity instructions. 
 
Users can now personalise the program by creating fabulous Bee-Bot shells.This encourages the development of image manipulation skills and can be linked to practical activities, such as printing and cutting out the shells for use as Bee-Bot jackets. 
 
    
 

 

  
 
 

 
    

 
  ESSENTIAL SCIENCE  9 - 14  
Licences start from: £ 29.95
 Essential Science 9-14 software and VLE SCORM package for KS2 and KS3 science features a wealth of science experiments and interactive. Excellent for helping students improve their investigative science skills. 
 
This interactive set of science experiments is suitable for whole class interactive whiteboard teaching and for use as an individual study aid. Essential Science experiments is available as an installable PC software program, VLE Learning Platform SCORM package or via the Focus eLearning web server. 
    
 

 

  
 
 

 
    

 
  Bee-Bot: Lesson Activities 1 -  2012 version  
Licences start from: £ 29.95
 New Features include:  
   • Shell Designer Module       • On-screen Mat Creator          
   • Bee-Bot Jacket Printer       • Audio Playback of Activity Instructions 
 
Focus on Bee-Bot: Lesson Activities  1.3 is a cross-curricular interactive program based on the popular Bee-Bot programmable floor robot.The resource is an excellent starting point for teaching control, directional language and programming to young children. It is suitable for both individual study and whole class whiteboard teaching. 
 
Find out how to use the software by visiting the   Bee-Bot Learning zone.  
 
Bee-Bot Lesson Activities 1 is based on eight well-known TTS cross-curricular activity mats including: Alphabet, Money, Race Track, Shapes and Colours, Busy Street, Treasure Island, CVC and Number Track. 
 
The software includes a range of activities for eight Bee-Bot cross-curricular activity mats. Challenges are solved by programming sequences of moves on-screen with feed-back given when tasks have been completed. Users can create their own on-screen activity mats and build and save 3D Bee-Bot worlds. Inexperienced readers can listen to recordings of the activity instructions. 
 
Users can now personalise the program by creating fabulous Bee-Bot shells.This encourages the development of image manipulation skills and can be linked to practical activities, such as printing and cutting out the shells for use as Bee-Bot jackets. 
 
WINNER of the BETT Award: Digital Content Core Subjects category. 
    
 

 

  
 
 

 
    

 
  SCIENCE INVESTIGATIONS 2  
Licences start from: £ 29.95
 23 simulated science experiments for Biology, Chemistry and Physics. Science Investigations 2 is an easy-to-use interactive science experiments software program which will help students learn and practice skills such as planning an experiment, making predictions and processing data. 
 
Perfect for whole class whiteboard teaching and for use as an individual study aid. This interactive eLearning Resource is available as an installable PC software program, VLE Learning Platform SCORM package or via the Focus eLearning web server. 
    
 

 

  
 
					   

						
				   

					



					



					


					



				 

				



				

				 



					


					  



					SPECIAL OFFERS

 

  Bee-Bot: Lesson Activities 1 -  2012 version  
    
    


  Design Technology: Mechanisms  
    
    


  ESSENTIAL SCIENCE  9 - 14  
    
    


  SCIENCE INVESTIGATIONS 1  
    
    

 




				 

				



				  



			 

			



			

			 



				 
 Focus Educational Software Ltd 
 PO Box 52 
 Truro 
 Cornwall 
 TR1 1ZJ 
 UK 
 Web: www.focuseducational.com 
 Email:  sales@focuseducational.com  
 Tel: 01872 241672 
 Fax: 01872 222391 
 



			 

			



			

			 



				 All prices quoted on this are are EXCLUSIVE of VAT, unless otherwise stated. 
 Registered Office : Focus Educational Software Ltd, 45 Lemon Street, Truro, Cornwall, TR1 2NS Company No : 3638113 VAT No : 730 2833 60 
 All content © Focus Educational. 
 
 
   
  XHTML 1.0  
  W3C CSS