Ceres Software Corporation - High School Science & Computer Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

 
 

  

 Thank you for visiting our Web site and taking the time to investigate our educational products. With the assistance of experienced and certified high school teachers, we have designed nine software packages to help students build science projects, and gain experience in physics problem solving. We have also created five large sets of educational activities for high school students in the areas of Physics, Chemistry, Physical Science, Earth and Space Science, and Computer Science. 
 The following is a brief description of the different educational materials we are promoting.  
Please click the links shown if you wish to obtain more specific information about any item:  

 
   Six oustanding physics modules containing close to 2,000 problems: Module 26 (Physics AP B), Module 20 (Optics), Modules 4 and 5 (Dynamics), and Modules 2 and 3 (Kinematics). Each module includes six test generators, tutorials, the step-by-step solution of each problem, a comprehensive study guide, and other useful utilities. (New version 2009) 
 Physics Problem Solving Software    

   Balsa Wood Bridges: this unique product is intended to help students design and build their own balsa wood bridges. It incorporates 1,300 high-quality digital pictures of real balsa wood bridges, and more than 300 drawings of different bridge trusses and models. It also includes two comprehensive picture-oriented tutorials, which explain the step-by-step planning and construction of a bridge. (New Version 2009) 
 Balsa Wood Bridges    

   Educational Electric Motors: this one of a kind software teaches students how to build four types of educational electric motors, by using simple and unexpensive things such as toothpicks, straws, corks, paperclips, needles, cardboard, etc. It incorporates close to 1,000 digital pictures, and dozens of drawings and outstanding real-life animations. The motors can be assembled as science projects. (Windows, Version 2.0, Year 2010) 
 Educational Electric Motors    

   A set of 225 outstanding activities in Computer Science. They have been designed for the following classes: Computer Applications, Computer Programming, Introduction to Computers, and Computer Technology. This product also includes a 96-page glossary, with the most important definitions, terms, and discoveries until recently, resulting in more than 1,500 entries. (Windows, Version 2010) 
 Computer Science Activities    

   A set of 139 activities in High School Physics. This product also includes a 125-page glossary. (Windows, Version 2005) 
 High School Physics Activities    

   A set of 113 activities in High School Chemistry. This product includes a 150-page glossary. (Windows, Version 2005) 
 High School Chemistry Activities    

   A set of 115 activities in High School Physical Science. This product also includes a 154-page glossary. (Windows, Version 2005) 
 High School Physical Science Activities    

   A set of 270 activities in High School Earth & Space Science. It also includes a 150-page glossary. (Windows, Version 2004) 
 High School Earth & Space Science.    

   A unique BASIC Language course to learn computer music, graphics, sequential data files, and computer programming. This product is intended for those people who still believe that good old BASIC is still a remarkable language. (Windows) 
 BASIC Language Course.   

   At the present time we are developing and testing two new products: (1) A set of Biology and Anatomy Activities, and (2) a set of 25 physics programs for advanced students in Honor and AP courses, which are problem-solving oriented. These two products will be available in December of the year 2011. 
   

   We have for you several free educational programs you and your students will enjoy. They include a set of six chemistry programs, a set of six physics programs, the gold version of Module 2: Beginning Kinematics, and dozens of complete activities in physics, chemistry, physical science, and earth science. Click this link to see what is available, and then select and download what you wish. 
 Free Educational Materials & List of Products.   

   If you wish to inspect some of the activities we have created, or if you want to play a puzzle online, please click this link. 
 Puzzle Activities & Play a Puzzle Online   


 We accept Purchase Orders from school districts and from individual schools. The Purchase Order must show the school name, address, and phone number, and must be signed by an administrator or department chairperson that is authorized to make purchases. All orders will be delivered within 7 days. 
   Please feel free to contact us if you have any question. 
  
   
   
  Ceres Software Corporation 
  
   871 N.W. 133rd Avenue 
  Miami, Florida 33182-1807  
  
  www.CeresSoft.org 
  
  E-mail:  
 CeresSoftware@Hotmail.com 
 

 Phone: 786-210-2635 
 
   
 

 Please click any of the links below to jump to different parts of our Web site: 

 
 
 

           
       Our Company     
       Physics     
       Chemistry     
       Physical Science     
       Earth & Space Science     
      
       Physics Software
        
           
       Balsa Wood Bridges    
       Electric Motors    
       Computer Education     
       View & Play Puzzles    
       Free Materials & Catalog