Digital Frog International | Virtual frog dissection and science educational software 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

  
  
  

  
  




  
  
  
 
 
 
 
      
   Begin main menu. 
      
  
    
    Products  
      Get DemoWare  
      Online Store  
    Pricing & Distribution  
      About Us  
      Tech Support  
    Frogger Club   
    Teacher Resources  
  	      Reseller Resources  
	      Frog Blog  
           What's New  


 
   End main menu. 
 
   
  
  
  
   
     
       
       
       
      
     
   
   
     
  
  
    
    
    
       
		  
             	
             
    
         
   
  
   
    
   What is Digital Frog anyway? We?re passionate creators of natural science software. We?re teachers of dissection and anatomy and ecosystems. We?re savers of frogs and inspirers of learners. We?re believers that you can?t care about a world you don?t understand. We?re
    Digital Frog International. 
   
     
       
            
            
            
            
            
       
     
     
       
          The Digital Frog 2.5  
          Virtual frog dissection, anatomy and ecology. An excellent supplement
          or replacement for a wet lab. With an anatomy section covering
          every system in the body. 
          From $85.  
       
       
          The Digital Field Trip to The Wetlands  
          Wetland ecology without getting your feet wet, including sections on food webs, nutrient cycles and photosynthesis. 
          From $60.  
       
       
          The Digital Field Trip to The Rainforest  
          Rainforest ecology, from the rainforests of the world to interdependencies, botany and human impact. 
          From $60.  
       
       
          The Digital Field Trip to the Desert  
          Deserts of North America and around the world, with in-depth sections on adaptations, homeostasis and landscape formation. 
          From $60.  
       
       
          ScienceMatrix:
          Cell Structure & Function  
          Cells and their components are brought to life with inquiry-based learning. Includes integrated assessment and built-in universal accessibility. 
          From $40.  
       
     
         
  
 
    From our Twitter  
      
 
 

 
   
	 Quick Links  
	 
	    Saving money with virtual dissection: a cost comparison  
	    DemoWare topic list  
	    Upgrading from previous versions  
	    Digital Frog software and homeschoolers   
	    Free teaching resources in the Digital Frogger Club  
	 
 
 
	 Our educational software 
    The Digital Frog 2.5  
	  The Digital Field Trip to The Wetlands  
	  The Digital Field Trip to The Rainforest  
	  The Digital Field Trip to The Desert  
	  The Digital Field Trip Series DVD  
	  ScienceMatrix: Cell
	Structure & Function  
    Free DemoWare versions   
 
 
   Purchasing 
	  Educational
  pricing  |  Home pricing  
	  Upgrade pricing   
	  Purchase online  |
     Distributors  
	 Other useful stuff   
	  The Frog Blog  |  Follow
	    us on Twitter  
	  Contact Us  |  Privacy
	    Policy   
	                      
 
 
	 © 2010 Digital Frog International, Inc.