Artificial intelligence learning software for accounting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 







  
  
  
 

  
  

 
 

  
 
   
     
         
            
     
     
         
 

  
			
 

 
    HOME  
    ABOUT QUANTUM 
     
        Overview  
        People  
        Partners/Collaborators  
        User Feedback  
        Awards  
        Careers  
     
   
    KNOWLEDGE CENTER  
      
       
        About Artificial Intelligence (AI)  
        Learning Activities  
        Education Resources  
     
   
    SOFTWARE PRODUCTS 
         
            Overview  
            Accounting Tutors  
            Chemistry Tutors  
		    Mathematics Tutors  
		    Professional Development  
         
   
    DEMOS  
    RESEARCH RESULTS  
    PRESS ROOM  
     
        Press Releases  
        In the News  
        Events  
     
   
    CONTACT US  
   
 

      
    
       
     
     
        
     
   

   
     
       
         
           
              
           
           
              
           
           
              
              
                 
                    
                 
                 
                    
                       
             
                         
                            
                         
                         
                            Returning users login below:  
                                 
                                Username: 
               
               
               
        Password:
         
         
         
        [ Forgot Password? ]  [ Help ]
           
         
                            
                         
             
                       

                        
                 
              
              
           

         
         
           
              
       
             
               
                 
                   
                      New Student?   
                      
                         
                      
                   
                 
                   
              
           
           
              
           
         
         
           
              
           
           
              
           
           
              
              
               
                   
               
               
                  
                   
                     
                     
                    
                   
                
                    
               
              
              
           
           
              
           
         
         
           
              
           
           
              
           
           
              
              
                 
                      
                   BUSINESS PARTNERING  
            Become an affiliate partner and receive royalties on Quantum software subscription sales. [ more ] 
                 
              
              
           
           
              
           
          
               
        
         
            
         
         
            
             
                
                
                 
                        
                         Accounting Tutors 
                          
                         Increase 
                        test scores and reduce study time. Unlimited 
                        accounting homework help, step-by-step tutoring 
                        feedback on your own work and 
                        immediate answers to your questions, day or night! 
                        Use with any textbook. Ideal for principles, financial 
                        and college accounting or as a review for intermediate 
                        accounting. Focuses on core topics defined by instructors 
                        as most difficult and challenging. 
						  Only $19.95/Semester 
                          
						   
                        
                       
                
             
            
         
		 
            
         
         
              Quantum Simulations 
  Empowering Educators, Inspiring Students  
               Accelerate Learning and Improve Test Scores! 
                 Quantum develops 
                unique artificial intelligence (AI) tutoring, assessment and professional 
                development software for accounting, science and mathematics that 
                empowers instructors and inspires students to achieve more. 
               Accessed over the Internet, our software 
                is scientifically proven to increase test scores by at least a 
                full letter grade, significantly improving student comprehension 
                and problem-solving skills through targeted homework practice 
                and personalized tutoring. Get help with your homework, ask questions, 
                focus on areas where you're struggling or prepare for that big 
                test. It's just like working with a real-life tutor or instructor! 
                
            
            
             
                
                 Accounting
                  Instructors  
                  Schedule
                  a live demo, request an account, view research and more. 
                   
                  
             
            
         
       
     
     
   
   
     
         
     
     
        
         Copyright ? Quantum Simulations, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Quantum Intelligent Tutoring Engines, Quantum Tutors, Quantum Assessment Advisors and Quantum Mentors  contain patented and patent-pending technologiesand are registered trademarks ? of Quantum Simulations, Inc. 
           Acknowledgements