McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 


 
 


 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
			 
			  
			  
   
 
 
	 
		
 



 
 Home  


 
 About  
 
 Our Team  

 
 Contact  
 
 Links  

 


	 
	 
		
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 

 
	   Golfing News 


  

  

 

	 
	  Subscribe by RSS  
	  Subscribe by email  
    
  Facebook Golf Page  
	 



 
 

 
 
 
  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
 By 
 Keith Bond  on 
November 25th, 2011
 
 
  
 

 Irish duo      Rory McIlroy and Graeme McDowell have been speaking positively about their      chances of success at the World Cup this week, saying they are determined to      improve on two years ago. 
 Ahead of this weekend’s event in China,      Ireland were pipped by Italian brothers Francesco and Edoardo Molinari in      the final stages, leaving them devastated and keen to go one better this      time around. 
 Looking ahead to what should be a thrilling few days of      golf, McDowell said: “I guess you could say I’ve got myself a decent      partner. He’s in great form and the world number two.” 
 “You have to      be able to motivate and inspire each other and enjoy the experience of being      in contention and under pressure, and hopefully enjoy the experience of      winning together.” 
 “There’s nothing quite like that team atmosphere      in golf. It’s a very individual sport and very few times do we get the      opportunity to play as a team. 
 “Winning individually is nice, but      winning as a team is something extra special. Hopefully we can use our      experiences of the last couple of years to good effect.” 
 McDowell was      instrumental in Europe winning the Ryder Cup last year of course and will be      hoping to call on this team spirit in China this week as he flies the Irish      flag alongside McIlroy. 
 As for the World No.2, he is convinced that      the way a team approaches the tournament is going to be instrumental in who      emerges as the winners. 
 The reigning US Open champion said: “The key      to this golf course is all about the second shots. Most of the teams are      going to find it relatively simple to hit it into the fairway and from there      the course gets a lot more challenging.” 
 “If you don’t get the ball      on the right level on the greens it’s going to be very difficult. Maybe the      scoring at this course might not be as low as it was in      Shenzhen.” 
 Ireland will be one of the favourites to win the World Cup      of course, but England – represented by Ian Poulter and Justin Rose – will      hope to challenging as will Martin Laird and Stephen Gallacher for      Scotland and Rhys Davies and Jamie Donaldson playing for      Wales. 
 Poulter as you would expect has been tweeting a lot while in      China, with his most recent update saying: “Team England have officially      called it a day & are getting some rest in for day 1 of the world cup.      7.00am gym warm up.” 
 Who knows, perhaps      the Englishman will also take part in some friendly  texas hold’em  with his      team. It would kill some time, get the brain working and help team bonding!      Perfect World Cup  preparation! 
 Related Posts   Can a Brit win The Open  Its 10 long years since a golfer from the home nations lifted the famous Claret Jug in The Open Cham...    Course Record for Fisher as he takes Day One Lead in the The European Open  Ross Fisher’s finished with a tremendous run of six straight birdies, at The London Golf Club in K...    rory mcilroy masters dream alive after controversy  Young Northern Ireland Golfer Rory McIlroy had an agonising wait yesterday to see if he was going to...    Bet on Rory McIlroy to win a PGA Tour Event  Rory McIlroy put in a fantastic performance at the Omega European Masters 2008 in Crans-sur-Sierre  ...    Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  While most folks are transfixed on Phil Mickleson's Sunday charge at Royal St. Georges, and Darren C...     Popularity: 1% [ ? ]     

 

 
 
		  
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST FOR LATEST OFFERS

 

 Enter your Email Address to get latest Golf News and Enter our latest competition


         Delivered by  FeedBurner 

 

  
	Categories:  News 
	 
		Tags: 
 

 
 





 
		 Leave a Reply 


 

  
 Name (required)  

  
 Email (not published) (required)  

  
 Website  


    

  
 
 
 

 You can use these XHTML tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  

 
	 

 
«  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A. 

 

 

 
 
 
	 
	  Latest  
	  Popular  
	  Sections  
		 

	
	 
		 
		  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
		  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
		  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
		  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
		  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
		  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
		  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
		  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
		  Donald takes top spot  
		  Woods to be fit for US Open  
		 
	 

	
	 
	 

	  Natalie Gulbis Pictures     Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup    Top 10 Golf Books - Live Updates    Buy Cheap Ping G15 Ping Iron from Ebay    Gifts for Golfers from Sparkling Direct    Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010    US Open Golf Championship - Trivia    Live Womens US Open Golf 2009 Coverage    Enjoy a Golfing Break in Devon or Cornwall    Vaughan Wins Senior Open Championship After Playoff   
	 
	 

	
	 
	 
		  Equipment 
 
	  European PGA Tour 
 
	  European Seniors Tour 
 
	  Golf Books 
 
	  Golf Courses 
 
	  Golf Gifts 
 
	  Golf Holidays 
 
	  LPGA Tour 
 
	  News 
 
	  pga tour 
 
	  Players 
 
	  Ryder Cup 
 
	  Tournaments 
 
	  Trivia 
 
	  Tutorials 
 
	  Video 
 
	 
	 

	
 
 


 

 
  

						  
 

 



 
 

	  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		  
	 
       Tags    Augusta National Golf Course 
 Bank Austria GolfOpen 
 barclays 
 BMW Asian Open 
 BMW International Open 
 BMW PGA Championship 
 Celtic Manor Wales Open 
 Darren Clarke 
 features 
 Geoff Ogilvy 
 Graeme Storm 
 irish open 
 Jeev Milkha Singh 
 Johnnie Walker Championship 
 ladies german open 
 Lee Westwood 
 Lorena Ochoa 
 MAPFRE Open de Andalucia 
 Masters 
 Michelle Wie 
 Miguel Angel Jiménez 
 Open de Espana 
 Padraig Harrington 
 Redstone Golf Club 
 ross fisher 
 Safeway International 
 Saint-Omer Open 
 Scottish Open 
 Shell Houston Open 
 Tee Times 
 The KLM Open 
 the open 
 The Open Championship 
 The Senior Open 
 Tiger Woods 
 turnberry 
 US Masters 
 US Masters News 
 US Open 
 uspga 
 Vijay Singh 
 wentworth 
 WGC - Bridgestone Invitational 
 Wyndham Championship 
 Zurich Classic  
    Meta  			 
						  Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  
						 
  
   
 
 
 
	 
	 Vote For Us At The Top 100 Golf Sites 
	 
	Copyright © 2011  Golfing News 
	 
		 Structure theme  by   Justin Tadlock