Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 


 
 


 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
			 
			  
			  
   
 
 
	 
		
 



 
 Home  


 
 About  
 
 Our Team  

 
 Contact  
 
 Links  

 


	 
	 
		
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 

 
	   Golfing News 


  

  

 

	 
	  Subscribe by RSS  
	  Subscribe by email  
    
  Facebook Golf Page  
	 



 
 

 
 
 
  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
 By 
 Ken Jackson  on 
September 22nd, 2008
 
 
  
 

 
 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
 
 
	 … because they scored more points than Europe. 
 Cheekiness aside, let’s examine the method to captain Paul Azinger’s madness. In the end, he assembled a squad of 12 guys who, top to bottom, relished being a part of this Ryder Cup. 
Europe’s concept of mateship and turning golf into a team sport every other year is often spoken of. The United States this year fielded a stable of horses who ran hard from the far pole just to qualify for this team. This is not to say that they don’t for every Cup competition, but when you realize the Americans compete for a cup every year (Ryder, then the Presidents Cup other years) and the core of those teams has been the same for about 10 years (Tiger, Mickelson, Furyk, et al), maybe the motivation isn’t as high on a Cup-to-Cup basis as is for the European team, which spends two years building up a froth to compete. 
 
 (A quick aside to address this: treat the three groups that compete in the Cups — the U.S., Europe and Internationals — as three entities that compete two out of every three years, giving the Americans a break every third year to allow Europe and the International teams a chance to square off.) 
 I’m not saying that Tiger Woods doesn’t want to be there and isn’t motivated to win the Cups, but the day that he tees off on No. 1 and does the Boo Weekley “ride that horsey” gallop down the fairway is the day I eat my sand wedge. Weekley, Kenny Perry, Hunter Mahan, Steve Stricker, Ben Curtis, J.B. Holmes and Anthony Kim all looked completely stoked to put on the American colors, which obviously rubbed off on folks like Furyk, Mickelson and Stewart Cink. The result was an unbreakable covalent bond only previously seen in the strongest European teams. 
 Start the talk about team Most Valuable Players and the European conversation begins and ends with Ian Poulter. On the U.S. side it’s not so clear. Was it Perry? Kim? Holmes? Weekley? Furyk? They all rose to the occasion, and when everyone carries a share of the load, you’ll move a ton of bricks. Or, in Azinger’s case Sunday, a two-foot tall trophy. 
 In postscript, two negatives from the 37th Ryder Cup at Valhalla should be addressed. The Cup was clinched by Sunday’s eighth match, leaving four games on the course that were told they had to play their way in instead of allowing the trailing player to concede, a la Payne Stewart in 1999 when he shook Colin Montgomerie’s hand on Brookline’s 18th tee. Chad Campbell was in the final match and had to play six more holes before being able to join the celebration. He played Padraig Harrington, who admitted to losing this adrenaline and motivation to play once the U.S. clinched the Cup. 
 Second, on American TV, The Golf Channel aired the postgame press conferences, which showed members of the European and British press in a repugnant display trying to expose a European scapegoat. One reporter openly questioned captain Nick Faldo’s roster and match order, while another asked him how he felt about being the first captain in nine years, “To send Europe home a loser.” Faldo laughed off the question, and assistant captain Jose-Maria Olazabal glared and said, “That question doesn’t deserve an answer.” Good for you, Olly. 
 Related Posts   Opening Ryder Cup match pairings set  The lineup is set for the first four matches in the 37th Ryder Cup at Valhalla Golf Club. The compet...    Americans overshadowed at the Masters  The leaderboard at the Masters reads Northern Ireland, Argentina, South Africa, Korea, Australia twi...    On Ryder Cup Eve — a few tidbits  The players are ready. And now, after a hectic week, Valhalla Golf Club is ready -- again.

The re...    United States Wrap Up Curtis Cup Victory  The United States team have vanquished Great Britain and Ireland in the 2008 Curtis Cup at the St An...    Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  The Americans have finally ended their frustrations in the majors.
After not winning a title since P...     Popularity: 42% [ ? ]     

 

 
 
		  
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST FOR LATEST OFFERS

 

 Enter your Email Address to get latest Golf News and Enter our latest competition


         Delivered by  FeedBurner 

 

  
	Categories:  News ,  Ryder Cup ,  Video 
	 
		Tags:  features ,  Video 
 

 
 





 
 5 Responses to “Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup”  
	 

	 
		 Robert Fowler  on 
		 Sep 22nd, 2008		 at 5:02 pm 
				 
	 
		 Good post. When it became clear Tiger would not be in the Ryder Cup, I told some friends that it was actually a good thing for the USA. This will be heresy to many, but he is not the ultimate team player and his Ryder Cup record is average. The media attention he gets and his demeanor in general I think distracted from the “team” in the past. 
Zinger did a great job and he took his job seriously. Not that past Captains did not, but Zinger was willing to shake things up and not go with the status quo. Kudos to the stodgy PGA for listening to him. 
	 
	 


	 

	 
		 TeeOff  on 
		 Sep 23rd, 2008		 at 2:11 am 
				 
	 
		 Tiger’s absence was noticeable but I don’t think that the enthusiasm of Kim, Mahan and Weekley would have been any different.  They were pumped and maybe the Ryder Cup will return to prominence. 
	 
	 


	 

	 
		Ken Jackson on 
		 Sep 25th, 2008		 at 3:46 pm 
				 
	 
		 Good points, folks. I do think guys like Kim, Weekley, Mahan, Stricker, et al, probably racheted it up a bit more with Woods absent, but yes they would have been “themselves” regardless. Tiger’s absence meant the others couldn’t wait around for him to “make a play” (win a match) and they had to go out and do it themselves. Besides, I’m sure a bit of ol’ Yankee pride kicked in with folks like Furyk, Mickelson and Leonard — with the exception of 1999 they’ve been getting their butts kicked for 13 years. Boo, J.B., Anthony and Kenny Perry didn’t come with that kind of baggage and were a breath of fresh air. 
	 
	 


	 

	 
		 David Thorp  on 
		 Nov 14th, 2008		 at 12:28 pm 
				 
	 
		 Europe’s Ryder Cup fell apart on the last day. Faldo’s casual approach to Sunday’s order of play was a big mistake. It was reported that he asked the players their preferred positon in the line-up and went along with their choices. This lead to Poulter, Westwood and Harrington going out in the last three matches. I’m sure they were very tired and all wanted to hole the winning putt, but with the team 2 points behind surely the strongest players should have played first to claw back the deficit. Garcia was arguably the correct choice to lead off but he was “out-Sergioed” by Kim and the first point was lost. With stronger captaincy Europe could have won, but the whole three days gave us great entertainment, and all concerned must be congratulated. 
	 
	 


	 

	 
		Darren Rowland on 
		 May 29th, 2009		 at 10:55 am 
				 
	 
		 Europe lost the ryder cup because phil mickelson is the best player in the world 
	 
	 

 
		 Leave a Reply 


 

  
 Name (required)  

  
 Email (not published) (required)  

  
 Website  


    

  
 
 
 

 You can use these XHTML tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  

 
	 

 
«  USA regain the Ryder Cup in Style 
  2008 Quinn Insurance British Masters Preview  »
 

 

 
 
 
	 
	  Latest  
	  Popular  
	  Sections  
		 

	
	 
		 
		  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
		  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
		  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
		  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
		  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
		  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
		  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
		  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
		  Donald takes top spot  
		  Woods to be fit for US Open  
		 
	 

	
	 
	 

	  Natalie Gulbis Pictures     Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup    Top 10 Golf Books - Live Updates    Buy Cheap Ping G15 Ping Iron from Ebay    Gifts for Golfers from Sparkling Direct    Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010    US Open Golf Championship - Trivia    Live Womens US Open Golf 2009 Coverage    Enjoy a Golfing Break in Devon or Cornwall    Vaughan Wins Senior Open Championship After Playoff   
	 
	 

	
	 
	 
		  Equipment 
 
	  European PGA Tour 
 
	  European Seniors Tour 
 
	  Golf Books 
 
	  Golf Courses 
 
	  Golf Gifts 
 
	  Golf Holidays 
 
	  LPGA Tour 
 
	  News 
 
	  pga tour 
 
	  Players 
 
	  Ryder Cup 
 
	  Tournaments 
 
	  Trivia 
 
	  Tutorials 
 
	  Video 
 
	 
	 

	
 
 


 

 
  

						  
 

 



 
 

	  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		  
	 
       Tags    Augusta National Golf Course 
 Bank Austria GolfOpen 
 barclays 
 BMW Asian Open 
 BMW International Open 
 BMW PGA Championship 
 Celtic Manor Wales Open 
 Darren Clarke 
 features 
 Geoff Ogilvy 
 Graeme Storm 
 irish open 
 Jeev Milkha Singh 
 Johnnie Walker Championship 
 ladies german open 
 Lee Westwood 
 Lorena Ochoa 
 MAPFRE Open de Andalucia 
 Masters 
 Michelle Wie 
 Miguel Angel Jiménez 
 Open de Espana 
 Padraig Harrington 
 Redstone Golf Club 
 ross fisher 
 Safeway International 
 Saint-Omer Open 
 Scottish Open 
 Shell Houston Open 
 Tee Times 
 The KLM Open 
 the open 
 The Open Championship 
 The Senior Open 
 Tiger Woods 
 turnberry 
 US Masters 
 US Masters News 
 US Open 
 uspga 
 Vijay Singh 
 wentworth 
 WGC - Bridgestone Invitational 
 Wyndham Championship 
 Zurich Classic  
    Meta  			 
						  Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  
						 
  
   
 
 
 
	 
	 Vote For Us At The Top 100 Golf Sites 
	 
	Copyright © 2011  Golfing News 
	 
		 Structure theme  by   Justin Tadlock