Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 


 
 


 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
			 
			  
			  
   
 
 
	 
		
 



 
 Home  


 
 About  
 
 Our Team  

 
 Contact  
 
 Links  

 


	 
	 
		
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 

 
	   Golfing News 


  

  

 

	 
	  Subscribe by RSS  
	  Subscribe by email  
    
  Facebook Golf Page  
	 



 
 

 
 
 
  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
 By 
 Keith Bond  on 
June 13th, 2011
 
 
  
 

 Dustin Johnson will head to the Congressional this week looking to banish memories of his shocking final round at Pebble Beach last year. The big hitting American went into the final round of last year’s tournament three shots clear of the rest of the field. An inexplicable round of 82 put paid to his hopes of winning his maiden major and Johnson found himself dropping out of contention down to a tie for eighth, with Graeme McDowell going on to lift the title. It may have been the 26-year-old’s best finish at the US Open but the painful final round will most certainly hit Johnson hard. 
 Johnson managed to bounce back from his Pebble Beach disappointment, going on to win the BMW Championship in September as well as decent top-15 finishes at the Open and PGA Championship. A decent start to this year has seen Johnson climb into the world’s top-ten in the rankings and the  US Open betting  indicates a need for him to push on. The pressure will be on the American to now prove he is a genuinely top-ten player and maintain his place. The 26-year-old is going to have to start improving his record at the majors though. Only three top-ten finishes in 13 major appearances isn’t the sort of record that will keep Johnson as one of the world’s top players. 
 Johnson will play the first  two rounds of golf  at this week’s US Open with Phil Mickelson and Rory McIlroy in one of the strongest groups named this week. Playing with two players that will be heavily backed to be in contention come the Sunday will be a massive benefit to Johnson. The big hitting 26-year old will need to be at his best to keep up with Mickelson and McIlroy who have both been consistent challengers in recent majors. The  Golf US Open odds  suggest he could find the going tough. 
Johnson couldn’t really have wished for a better course on which to play this year. The Congressional course is ideally suited to the powerful driving that Johnson gets from the tee. If the American can find some consistency to his short game then he could well be a major contender this week. 
      
 Related Posts   Kaymer wins PGA, but who cares?  Martin Kaymer won a playoff over Bubba Watson to win the PGA Championship on Sunday, bla bla bla.
...    .. and away we go in U.S. Open final round  Mickelson's done. Tiger's gonna charge. His rookie French playing partner is toast.  Dustin Johnson...    3 way tie at top after round 1 of Byron Nelson Championship  The Bryon Nelson Championship is very tight after day 1 with three players tied for the lead.   Math...    ’09 TOUR season begins Thursday in Hawaii  Happy New Year, pros.

The 2009 PGA TOUR season gets underway Thursday when 33 event winners from ...    Drama expected in today’s Open final round  When Phil Mickelson shot his stellar 66 in the second round fo the U.S. Open, everyone thought that ...     Popularity: 8% [ ? ]     

 

 
 
		  
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST FOR LATEST OFFERS

 

 Enter your Email Address to get latest Golf News and Enter our latest competition


         Delivered by  FeedBurner 

 

  
	Categories:  News 
	 
		Tags:  features 
 

 
 





 
		 Leave a Reply 


 

  
 Name (required)  

  
 Email (not published) (required)  

  
 Website  


    

  
 
 
 

 You can use these XHTML tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  

 
	 

 
«  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes 
  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  »
 

 

 
 
 
	 
	  Latest  
	  Popular  
	  Sections  
		 

	
	 
		 
		  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
		  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
		  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
		  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
		  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
		  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
		  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
		  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
		  Donald takes top spot  
		  Woods to be fit for US Open  
		 
	 

	
	 
	 

	  Natalie Gulbis Pictures     Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup    Top 10 Golf Books - Live Updates    Buy Cheap Ping G15 Ping Iron from Ebay    Gifts for Golfers from Sparkling Direct    Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010    US Open Golf Championship - Trivia    Live Womens US Open Golf 2009 Coverage    Enjoy a Golfing Break in Devon or Cornwall    Vaughan Wins Senior Open Championship After Playoff   
	 
	 

	
	 
	 
		  Equipment 
 
	  European PGA Tour 
 
	  European Seniors Tour 
 
	  Golf Books 
 
	  Golf Courses 
 
	  Golf Gifts 
 
	  Golf Holidays 
 
	  LPGA Tour 
 
	  News 
 
	  pga tour 
 
	  Players 
 
	  Ryder Cup 
 
	  Tournaments 
 
	  Trivia 
 
	  Tutorials 
 
	  Video 
 
	 
	 

	
 
 


 

 
  

						  
 

 



 
 

	  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		  
	 
       Tags    Augusta National Golf Course 
 Bank Austria GolfOpen 
 barclays 
 BMW Asian Open 
 BMW International Open 
 BMW PGA Championship 
 Celtic Manor Wales Open 
 Darren Clarke 
 features 
 Geoff Ogilvy 
 Graeme Storm 
 irish open 
 Jeev Milkha Singh 
 Johnnie Walker Championship 
 ladies german open 
 Lee Westwood 
 Lorena Ochoa 
 MAPFRE Open de Andalucia 
 Masters 
 Michelle Wie 
 Miguel Angel Jiménez 
 Open de Espana 
 Padraig Harrington 
 Redstone Golf Club 
 ross fisher 
 Safeway International 
 Saint-Omer Open 
 Scottish Open 
 Shell Houston Open 
 Tee Times 
 The KLM Open 
 the open 
 The Open Championship 
 The Senior Open 
 Tiger Woods 
 turnberry 
 US Masters 
 US Masters News 
 US Open 
 uspga 
 Vijay Singh 
 wentworth 
 WGC - Bridgestone Invitational 
 Wyndham Championship 
 Zurich Classic  
    Meta  			 
						  Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  
						 
  
   
 
 
 
	 
	 Vote For Us At The Top 100 Golf Sites 
	 
	Copyright © 2011  Golfing News 
	 
		 Structure theme  by   Justin Tadlock