Putting is key, says Mickelson 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 


 
 


 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
			 
			  
			  
   
 
 
	 
		
 



 
 Home  


 
 About  
 
 Our Team  

 
 Contact  
 
 Links  

 


	 
	 
		
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 

 
	   Golfing News 


  

  

 

	 
	  Subscribe by RSS  
	  Subscribe by email  
    
  Facebook Golf Page  
	 



 
 

 
 
 
  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
 By 
 Keith Bond  on 
July 7th, 2011
 
 
  
 

 Californian  golfer, Phil Mickelson, believes that a ‘change of tactics’ will be  necessary at the British Open next week, if he wishes to end his run of  poor form on links-style golf courses. 
 Mickelson,  despite having won the Masters in 2004, 2006, and 2010, and the PGA  Championship in 2005, is routinely outperformed in British tournaments.  The American finished third in the Open Championship in 2004, the only  time that Mickelson has breached the top ten in the race for the Claret  Jug. Anyone looking at the  golf the Open betting  will be wondering if he can better that this time around. 
 The  problem, he says, is not due to the unpredictable weather, nor black  magic or bad luck; Mickelson’s failure to impress in the British Open,  or indeed, in any tournament on this side of the Pond, reflects his lack  of experience on links courses. The left-handed player is particularly  concerned about his putting ability. 
 Yyou  need to putt with less break and more aggression [on links courses]“,  he said. “The grass is a little bit coarser, a little thicker, [and] has  a little bit more effect”. 
 Mickelson,  much like Luke Donald and Graeme McDowell, has thrown himself into  links competition recently, in a bid to improve his skill with the  sport’s most important instrument, the putter. The American is currently  playing at the Castle Stuart links in the Scottish Open. Mickelson  hopes the event will have a “big positive effect” on his chances at the  British Open. Those following the  Betfair golf betting  should keep a close eye on the warm up event. 
 The  absence of Tiger Woods from the British Open presents Mickelson with a  unique opportunity to crawl out from beneath the injured golfer’s  shadow. Woods previously foxed Mickelson’s attempts at Major gold, but  the 35-year-old, who has endured more than his fair share of tabloid  speculation in recent years, has not won a Major since 2008. The last  three years, by Woods’ own standards, have been the least successful of  his 15-year career. 
 Despite  Woods’ injury, the US will have a strong showing at the British Open  next week, with Watney, Kuchar, and Stricker all teeing off at the Royal  St. George’s Golf Course. 
 Related Posts   Mickelson takes WGC victory  Phil Mickleson and Nick Watney, tied going into the final round of the World Golf Championships-CA C...    Mickelson and Watney tied at the top at WGC-CA  Phil Mickelson and Nick Watney, who have already won this year on the PGA TOUR, have assured that Su...    Singh wins World Golf Championships – Bridgestone Invitational  Vijay Singh can finally breathe a sigh of relief after winning his first World Golf Championship! 
...    PGA Tour Official Merchandise ideal presents for golfers  The PGA Tour is the biggest tour in golf and it is what every golfer in the world expires to play on...    Cabrera survives playoff to win The Masters  The Green Jacket That Nobody Seemed to Want is heading south of the equator.

Angel Cabrera surviv...     Popularity: 10% [ ? ]     

 

 
 
		  
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST FOR LATEST OFFERS

 

 Enter your Email Address to get latest Golf News and Enter our latest competition


         Delivered by  FeedBurner 

 

  
	Categories:  News 
	 
		Tags: 
 

 
 





 
		 Leave a Reply 


 

  
 Name (required)  

  
 Email (not published) (required)  

  
 Website  


    

  
 
 
 

 You can use these XHTML tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  

 
	 

 
«  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory 
  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  »
 

 

 
 
 
	 
	  Latest  
	  Popular  
	  Sections  
		 

	
	 
		 
		  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
		  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
		  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
		  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
		  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
		  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
		  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
		  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
		  Donald takes top spot  
		  Woods to be fit for US Open  
		 
	 

	
	 
	 

	  Natalie Gulbis Pictures     Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup    Top 10 Golf Books - Live Updates    Buy Cheap Ping G15 Ping Iron from Ebay    Gifts for Golfers from Sparkling Direct    Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010    US Open Golf Championship - Trivia    Live Womens US Open Golf 2009 Coverage    Enjoy a Golfing Break in Devon or Cornwall    Vaughan Wins Senior Open Championship After Playoff   
	 
	 

	
	 
	 
		  Equipment 
 
	  European PGA Tour 
 
	  European Seniors Tour 
 
	  Golf Books 
 
	  Golf Courses 
 
	  Golf Gifts 
 
	  Golf Holidays 
 
	  LPGA Tour 
 
	  News 
 
	  pga tour 
 
	  Players 
 
	  Ryder Cup 
 
	  Tournaments 
 
	  Trivia 
 
	  Tutorials 
 
	  Video 
 
	 
	 

	
 
 


 

 
  

						  
 

 



 
 

	  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		  
	 
       Tags    Augusta National Golf Course 
 Bank Austria GolfOpen 
 barclays 
 BMW Asian Open 
 BMW International Open 
 BMW PGA Championship 
 Celtic Manor Wales Open 
 Darren Clarke 
 features 
 Geoff Ogilvy 
 Graeme Storm 
 irish open 
 Jeev Milkha Singh 
 Johnnie Walker Championship 
 ladies german open 
 Lee Westwood 
 Lorena Ochoa 
 MAPFRE Open de Andalucia 
 Masters 
 Michelle Wie 
 Miguel Angel Jiménez 
 Open de Espana 
 Padraig Harrington 
 Redstone Golf Club 
 ross fisher 
 Safeway International 
 Saint-Omer Open 
 Scottish Open 
 Shell Houston Open 
 Tee Times 
 The KLM Open 
 the open 
 The Open Championship 
 The Senior Open 
 Tiger Woods 
 turnberry 
 US Masters 
 US Masters News 
 US Open 
 uspga 
 Vijay Singh 
 wentworth 
 WGC - Bridgestone Invitational 
 Wyndham Championship 
 Zurich Classic  
    Meta  			 
						  Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  
						 
  
   
 
 
 
	 
	 Vote For Us At The Top 100 Golf Sites 
	 
	Copyright © 2011  Golfing News 
	 
		 Structure theme  by   Justin Tadlock