Donald takes top spot 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 


 
 


 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
			 
			  
			  
   
 
 
	 
		
 



 
 Home  


 
 About  
 
 Our Team  

 
 Contact  
 
 Links  

 


	 
	 
		
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 

 
	   Golfing News 


  

  

 

	 
	  Subscribe by RSS  
	  Subscribe by email  
    
  Facebook Golf Page  
	 



 
 

 
 
 
  Donald takes top spot  
 By 
 Keith Bond  on 
June 1st, 2011
 
 
  
 

 Luke Donald is now the number one ranked golfer in the world. 
 Donald has knocked  free bet  favourite Lee Westwood off the top spot after winning the BMW PGA Championship title at Wentworth. 
 The title was secured in dramatic fashion as Donald beat Ryder Cup team-mate Westwood in a play-off after both Englishmen finished level at the top of the leaderboard. 
 The tense win seals a remarkable few months for Donald, who finished in the top-10 of the last nine tournaments he has entered, scooping a massive £3 million for his troubles. 
 Donald becomes only the third Englishmen after Nick Faldo and Westwood to sit pretty at the top of the rankings. Although, tough on the Worksop-born Westwood, who found the water in the play-off to effectively sacrifice the tournament, Donald was delighted to become the best player in the world in what was surreal circumstances. 
 “I’m not sure whether there will ever be a case where number one and number two in the world are playing off for the tournament, but also for a chance of number one ranking in the world,” a jubilant Donald told Sky Sports. 
 “But a unique history I think has been made, and I’m glad to be part of it. As I said before, it’s something that will be a great story when I’m an old man telling my grandkids that I was once the best player in the world at Golf. 
 “It’s a little surreal. It’s hard to believe in a certain way. You keep thinking that you have the ability and the talent, but you never quite really know.” 
 Donald claimed the top spot at the third attempt after a series of  free bets  backing the Englishman, and is looking to keep up his impressive form to maintain top spot from the likes of Westwood and former world number one Martin Kaymer. 
 “I have a lot more to accomplish, hopefully many more victories in me, and hopefully I can at least be somewhat of a worthy number one for a few weeks,” he added. 
 Related Posts   Donald loss hands top spot to Westwood  Luke Donald has missed  out on the opportunity to become world number one after failing to win at Th...    Luke Donald forced to miss The Open Next Week  
Luke Donald has been forced to concede defeat in his fight to be fit to play the British Open next...    Bohn takes half way stage lead at the Wachovia Championship  A fantastic 67 has shot Jason Bohn to a two shot lead in the latest round of the Wachovia Championsh...    Sawgrass vulnerable; Holmes’ 66 leads early  Thanks to a harsh winter, the rough is down and sparse, and the breezes that can make the TPC Sawgra...    Flying Dutchman – Muntz Takes First Round At The KLM Open  The home crowd had plenty to cheer about at the Kennemer G & CC, Zandvoort as Dutchman Rolf Muntz sh...     Popularity: 8% [ ? ]     

 

 
 
		  
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST FOR LATEST OFFERS

 

 Enter your Email Address to get latest Golf News and Enter our latest competition


         Delivered by  FeedBurner 

 

  
	Categories:  News 
	 
		Tags:  features 
 

 
 





 
		 Leave a Reply 


 

  
 Name (required)  

  
 Email (not published) (required)  

  
 Website  


    

  
 
 
 

 You can use these XHTML tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  

 
	 

 
«  Woods to be fit for US Open 
  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  »
 

 

 
 
 
	 
	  Latest  
	  Popular  
	  Sections  
		 

	
	 
		 
		  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
		  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
		  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
		  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
		  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
		  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
		  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
		  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
		  Donald takes top spot  
		  Woods to be fit for US Open  
		 
	 

	
	 
	 

	  Natalie Gulbis Pictures     Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup    Top 10 Golf Books - Live Updates    Buy Cheap Ping G15 Ping Iron from Ebay    Gifts for Golfers from Sparkling Direct    Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010    US Open Golf Championship - Trivia    Live Womens US Open Golf 2009 Coverage    Enjoy a Golfing Break in Devon or Cornwall    Vaughan Wins Senior Open Championship After Playoff   
	 
	 

	
	 
	 
		  Equipment 
 
	  European PGA Tour 
 
	  European Seniors Tour 
 
	  Golf Books 
 
	  Golf Courses 
 
	  Golf Gifts 
 
	  Golf Holidays 
 
	  LPGA Tour 
 
	  News 
 
	  pga tour 
 
	  Players 
 
	  Ryder Cup 
 
	  Tournaments 
 
	  Trivia 
 
	  Tutorials 
 
	  Video 
 
	 
	 

	
 
 


 

 
  

						  
 

 



 
 

	  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		  
	 
       Tags    Augusta National Golf Course 
 Bank Austria GolfOpen 
 barclays 
 BMW Asian Open 
 BMW International Open 
 BMW PGA Championship 
 Celtic Manor Wales Open 
 Darren Clarke 
 features 
 Geoff Ogilvy 
 Graeme Storm 
 irish open 
 Jeev Milkha Singh 
 Johnnie Walker Championship 
 ladies german open 
 Lee Westwood 
 Lorena Ochoa 
 MAPFRE Open de Andalucia 
 Masters 
 Michelle Wie 
 Miguel Angel Jiménez 
 Open de Espana 
 Padraig Harrington 
 Redstone Golf Club 
 ross fisher 
 Safeway International 
 Saint-Omer Open 
 Scottish Open 
 Shell Houston Open 
 Tee Times 
 The KLM Open 
 the open 
 The Open Championship 
 The Senior Open 
 Tiger Woods 
 turnberry 
 US Masters 
 US Masters News 
 US Open 
 uspga 
 Vijay Singh 
 wentworth 
 WGC - Bridgestone Invitational 
 Wyndham Championship 
 Zurich Classic  
    Meta  			 
						  Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  
						 
  
   
 
 
 
	 
	 Vote For Us At The Top 100 Golf Sites 
	 
	Copyright © 2011  Golfing News 
	 
		 Structure theme  by   Justin Tadlock