Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 


 
 


 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
			 
			  
			  
   
 
 
	 
		
 



 
 Home  


 
 About  
 
 Our Team  

 
 Contact  
 
 Links  

 


	 
	 
		
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 

 
	   Golfing News 


  

  

 

	 
	  Subscribe by RSS  
	  Subscribe by email  
    
  Facebook Golf Page  
	 



 
 

 
 
 
  Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010  
 By 
 Martin Warn  on 
January 24th, 2010
 
 
  
 

	 
	
	 
 German Martin Kaymer has won the Abu Dhabi Championship today ( Sunday) after shooting a birdie on the final hole to win the title for the second time in 2 years.  The last hole birdie helped Kaymer to beat England Ian Poulter by one shot.  Martin Kaymer managed to shoot a 2 foot birdie which was his 6th of a final round 66, which gave him a 6 under par for the day and 21 under par 267 for the tournament.  This was Martin Kaymer 5th European tour title. 
It was hard luck for Ian Poulter who also shot a a 66 today but he missed a 15 foot birdie shot which would have put the tournament into a playoff.  Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland was third at 269 after a 67. “That was the nicest round of golf I have ever played on the European Tour,” said Kaymer, who has a metal plate in his right foot after breaking three bones in a go-kart crash last summer.” All three of us played such good golf, we were going for the flags and going for everything. And to have come through that should be a real help if I make my Ryder Cup debut later this year.” Kaymer won the Abu Dhabi title in 2008 and finished runner-up last year. Over his past 12 rounds in Abu Dhabi, he is 56 under. Kaymer led by a shot overnight and opened the final round with two birdies to keep pace with Poulter, who picked up three shots in his first three holes. 
After Poulter laid up with his second shot at the par-5 18th, Kaymer smashed a 3-wood from 277 yards on to the green. The German two-putted to take the $391,000 winner’s check. Shane Lowry shot a 67 to be four shots back in fourth spot. It was the Irishman’s first top-five finish on the European Tour since turning professional after winning last year’s Irish Open as an amateur. 
 Abu Dhabi Final Leaderboard 
1. Kaymer (-21) 
2. Poulter (-20) 
3. McIlroy (-19) 
4. Lowry (-17) 
5. Oosthuizen (-16) 
 Related Posts   Kaymer forges ahead in 2008 BMW International Open  Home favourite Martin Kaymer played a magnificent round to go five strokes clear in the 2008 BMW Int...    Kaymer wins PGA, but who cares?  Martin Kaymer won a playoff over Bubba Watson to win the PGA Championship on Sunday, bla bla bla.
...    Kaymer claims Barclays Scottish Open 2009  Martin Kaymer of Germany triumphed in the 2009 Barclays Scottish Open at Loch Lomond after a two und...    Kaymer records play off win in BMW International 2008  Martin Kaymer became the first german to win their home tournament the BMW International 2008 in the...    US Masters 2010 Betting Odds  The US Masters 2010 is the first major of 2010,  and the Augusta National will host the return to go...     Popularity: 23% [ ? ]     

 

 
 
		  
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST FOR LATEST OFFERS

 

 Enter your Email Address to get latest Golf News and Enter our latest competition


         Delivered by  FeedBurner 

 

  
	Categories:  European PGA Tour 
	 
		Tags:  features 
 

 
 





 
		 Leave a Reply 


 

  
 Name (required)  

  
 Email (not published) (required)  

  
 Website  


    

  
 
 
 

 You can use these XHTML tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  

 
	 

 
«  Sony Open 2010 in Hawaii Round 2 Tee Times 
  US Masters 2010 Betting Odds  »
 

 

 
 
 
	 
	  Latest  
	  Popular  
	  Sections  
		 

	
	 
		 
		  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
		  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
		  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
		  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
		  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
		  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
		  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
		  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
		  Donald takes top spot  
		  Woods to be fit for US Open  
		 
	 

	
	 
	 

	  Natalie Gulbis Pictures     Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup    Top 10 Golf Books - Live Updates    Buy Cheap Ping G15 Ping Iron from Ebay    Gifts for Golfers from Sparkling Direct    Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010    US Open Golf Championship - Trivia    Live Womens US Open Golf 2009 Coverage    Enjoy a Golfing Break in Devon or Cornwall    Vaughan Wins Senior Open Championship After Playoff   
	 
	 

	
	 
	 
		  Equipment 
 
	  European PGA Tour 
 
	  European Seniors Tour 
 
	  Golf Books 
 
	  Golf Courses 
 
	  Golf Gifts 
 
	  Golf Holidays 
 
	  LPGA Tour 
 
	  News 
 
	  pga tour 
 
	  Players 
 
	  Ryder Cup 
 
	  Tournaments 
 
	  Trivia 
 
	  Tutorials 
 
	  Video 
 
	 
	 

	
 
 


 

 
  

						  
 

 



 
 

	  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		  
	 
       Tags    Augusta National Golf Course 
 Bank Austria GolfOpen 
 barclays 
 BMW Asian Open 
 BMW International Open 
 BMW PGA Championship 
 Celtic Manor Wales Open 
 Darren Clarke 
 features 
 Geoff Ogilvy 
 Graeme Storm 
 irish open 
 Jeev Milkha Singh 
 Johnnie Walker Championship 
 ladies german open 
 Lee Westwood 
 Lorena Ochoa 
 MAPFRE Open de Andalucia 
 Masters 
 Michelle Wie 
 Miguel Angel Jiménez 
 Open de Espana 
 Padraig Harrington 
 Redstone Golf Club 
 ross fisher 
 Safeway International 
 Saint-Omer Open 
 Scottish Open 
 Shell Houston Open 
 Tee Times 
 The KLM Open 
 the open 
 The Open Championship 
 The Senior Open 
 Tiger Woods 
 turnberry 
 US Masters 
 US Masters News 
 US Open 
 uspga 
 Vijay Singh 
 wentworth 
 WGC - Bridgestone Invitational 
 Wyndham Championship 
 Zurich Classic  
    Meta  			 
						  Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  
						 
  
   
 
 
 
	 
	 Vote For Us At The Top 100 Golf Sites 
	 
	Copyright © 2011  Golfing News 
	 
		 Structure theme  by   Justin Tadlock