Natalie Gulbis Pictures  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 


 
 


 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
			 
			  
			  
   
 
 
	 
		
 



 
 Home  


 
 About  
 
 Our Team  

 
 Contact  
 
 Links  

 


	 
	 
		
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 

 
	   Golfing News 


  

  

 

	 
	  Subscribe by RSS  
	  Subscribe by email  
    
  Facebook Golf Page  
	 



 
 

 
 
 
  Natalie Gulbis Pictures  
 By 
 Martin Warn  on 
January 15th, 2009
 
 
  
 

	 
	
	 
 Who is Natalie Gulbis?  well she is a leading ladies golfer on the LPGA tour. 
Natalie Gulbis is viewed as the golden girl of ladies golf, she is the golf pinup or the sex symbol of the ladies game.  Natalie released a calender in 2005 which showed her posing in swimwear,  as well as playing golf.  Natalie Gulbis posed for FHM,  the Natalie Gulbis in FHM pictures caused quite a stir,  and the USPGA were not too impressed. The Natalie Gulbis Calender pictures, and namely Natalie Gulbis Calender Swimsuit pictures are in demand.   It has been rumoured she has been offered, a Natalie Gulbis Playboy shoot. 
 Natalie Gulbis Pictures 
    
   
   
   
   
  ADD YOUR NATALIE GULBIS PICTURES TO THE GROUP   
 View more  Natalie Gulbis Pics  on our Flickr Group 
 Natalie Gulbis has endorsements and sponsors including TaylorMade Golf, Adidas, Canon, Raymond Weil geneve, Amstel Light, SkyCaddie, Payment Data Systems, MasterCard, Winn Golf Grips and Lake Las Vegas Resort. 
Natalie has continued her off golf course work,  she has a golf advice column in FGM a reality tv show 
The Natalie Gulbis Show,on The Golf Channel.  The Natalie Gulbis Swing is worth watching her head ducks to the side as she follows through.   Natalie won here first tourment in 2006 the Evian Masters. 
 Natalie Gulbis Profile 
 Birth 	January 7, 1983 (1983-01-07) (age 25) 
Sacramento, California 
Married: No 
Height 	5 ft 9 in (1.75 m) 
Nationality 	Flag of the United States United States 
Residence 	Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S. 
Rookie year: 2002 
Status: Exempt 
Career victories (last): 1 (2007) 
Career-low round: 63 
Career earnings (rank): $3,376,491 (42) 
LPGA career holes-in-one: 2 
Playoff record: 1-1 
Education: University of Arizona 
 Natalie Gulbis Tournament Stats 
 Professional wins 	2 (LPGA Tour: 1) 
Best results in major championships 
Kraft Nabisco 	T3: 2006 
LPGA Championship 	T5: 2005 
U.S. Women’s Open 	T4: 2005 
Women’s British Open 	T8: 2005 
Awards 
William and Mousie Powell Award 	2007 
  Natalie Gulbis Clubs 
 So what is in Natalie Gulbis Golf Bag?  Natalie is sponsored by TaylorMade 
she uses there clubs,  buy them online 
  TaylorMade Burner Driver Ladies 
TaylorMade R7 Irons Ladies – Graphite Shaft 
TaylorMade RAC Satin TP Wedge 
TaylorMade Deuce Cap  Ladies 
TaylorMade Sport Visor  Ladies   
 You can buy all these clubs and equipment from Golf Online 
   
  Natalie Gulbis Profile  
 Related Posts   Natalie Gulbis competes for US Open 2008  The Womens US Open 2008 has begun, with the top names in ladies golf trying to win one of the Womens...    Natalie Gulbis video from 17th hole at Kraft Nabisco Championship  Natalie Gulbis  is the pin up girls of ladies golf,  following her racy calendars pictures  and F...    Lorena Ochoa leads the Kraft Nabisco Championship at half way stage  World Number one Lorena Ochoa is leading the first ladies major of the season the Kraft Nabisco Cham...    Saturday Tee Times Pairings for British Womens Open Round 3  The British Open is at the business end,  with the third round already underway,  the top of the lea...    Fudoh leads Womens British Open going into Final Day  The low scoring continued on day 3 of the Womens British Open with Japanese star Yuri Fudoh taking a...     Popularity: 100% [ ? ]     

 

 
 
		  
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST FOR LATEST OFFERS

 

 Enter your Email Address to get latest Golf News and Enter our latest competition


         Delivered by  FeedBurner 

 

  
	Categories:  Players 
	 
		Tags:  Natalie Gulbis 
 

 
 





 
		 Leave a Reply 


 

  
 Name (required)  

  
 Email (not published) (required)  

  
 Website  


    

  
 
 
 

 You can use these XHTML tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  

 
	 

 
«  PGA in Paradise, Week Two 
  Maruyama shoots 65 in Hawaiian winds  »
 

 

 
 
 
	 
	  Latest  
	  Popular  
	  Sections  
		 

	
	 
		 
		  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
		  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
		  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
		  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
		  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
		  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
		  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
		  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
		  Donald takes top spot  
		  Woods to be fit for US Open  
		 
	 

	
	 
	 

	  Natalie Gulbis Pictures     Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup    Top 10 Golf Books - Live Updates    Buy Cheap Ping G15 Ping Iron from Ebay    Gifts for Golfers from Sparkling Direct    Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010    US Open Golf Championship - Trivia    Live Womens US Open Golf 2009 Coverage    Enjoy a Golfing Break in Devon or Cornwall    Vaughan Wins Senior Open Championship After Playoff   
	 
	 

	
	 
	 
		  Equipment 
 
	  European PGA Tour 
 
	  European Seniors Tour 
 
	  Golf Books 
 
	  Golf Courses 
 
	  Golf Gifts 
 
	  Golf Holidays 
 
	  LPGA Tour 
 
	  News 
 
	  pga tour 
 
	  Players 
 
	  Ryder Cup 
 
	  Tournaments 
 
	  Trivia 
 
	  Tutorials 
 
	  Video 
 
	 
	 

	
 
 


 

 
  

						  
 

 



 
 

	  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		  
	 
       Tags    Augusta National Golf Course 
 Bank Austria GolfOpen 
 barclays 
 BMW Asian Open 
 BMW International Open 
 BMW PGA Championship 
 Celtic Manor Wales Open 
 Darren Clarke 
 features 
 Geoff Ogilvy 
 Graeme Storm 
 irish open 
 Jeev Milkha Singh 
 Johnnie Walker Championship 
 ladies german open 
 Lee Westwood 
 Lorena Ochoa 
 MAPFRE Open de Andalucia 
 Masters 
 Michelle Wie 
 Miguel Angel Jiménez 
 Open de Espana 
 Padraig Harrington 
 Redstone Golf Club 
 ross fisher 
 Safeway International 
 Saint-Omer Open 
 Scottish Open 
 Shell Houston Open 
 Tee Times 
 The KLM Open 
 the open 
 The Open Championship 
 The Senior Open 
 Tiger Woods 
 turnberry 
 US Masters 
 US Masters News 
 US Open 
 uspga 
 Vijay Singh 
 wentworth 
 WGC - Bridgestone Invitational 
 Wyndham Championship 
 Zurich Classic  
    Meta  			 
						  Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  
						 
  
   
 
 
 
	 
	 Vote For Us At The Top 100 Golf Sites 
	 
	Copyright © 2011  Golfing News 
	 
		 Structure theme  by   Justin Tadlock