Bradley brings major title to U.S.A. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 


 
 


 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
			 
			  
			  
   
 
 
	 
		
 



 
 Home  


 
 About  
 
 Our Team  

 
 Contact  
 
 Links  

 


	 
	 
		
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 

 
	   Golfing News 


  

  

 

	 
	  Subscribe by RSS  
	  Subscribe by email  
    
  Facebook Golf Page  
	 



 
 

 
 
 
  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
 By 
 Ken Jackson  on 
August 15th, 2011
 
 
  
 

 The Americans have finally ended their frustrations in the majors. 
After not winning a title since Phil Mickelson took the 2010 Masters and only winning two of the last 10 “Big Four” events, the American flag finally flew over the trophy winner. 
Although, with four holes left, the American who thought he had a stranglehold on the win was not the American who hoisted the trophy afterwards. 
Keegan Bradley, in his first-ever major as a professional, went through a range of emotions Sunday afternoon at the Atlanta Athetlic Club to with the U.S. PGA Championship in a three-hole playoff over fellow Yank Jason Dufner. 
Dufner stood on the tee of the diabolical par-3 15th hole and watched Bradley chip into the water and make triple bogey, handing him a four-shot lead. Dufner’s response? Dump his tee ball on 15 in the water. He made a great bogey but followed with bogies on 16 and 17, while Bradley birdied them, emphatically making a 45-footer on 17. 
In the aggregate-score playoff, Bradley birdied the first hole (the 16th) and Dufner never had any answer. 
But for 14 holes on Sunday and for 68 through the event, Dufner was unflinching and nearly flawless. He birdied the 13th and 14th holes to get to 11-under par, putting three strokes between himself and Sweden’s Robert Karlson, who was six under on the day after an eagle on the par-5 12th hole. The margin seemed to widen after Bradley’s adventure on 15, but on cue Dufner’s tragic fall began. 
Europe’s best hopes at the end came from Karlson and Denmark’s Anders Hanson, who quietly finished third one stroke behind the Americans. Karlson tied with David Toms, the 2001 PGA winner at Atlanta Athletic, and Scott Verplank. WGC winner Adam Scott and England’s Lee Westwood and Luke Donald lined up behind them. 
After next week’s Wyndham Championship in North Carolina, the PGA TOUR’s FedEx Cup playoffs will begin in New Jersey at The Barclays. 
 Related Posts   6 way tie at the half way stage of St Jude Championship  After 36 holes of the St Jude Championship at TPC Southwind  Memphis, Tenn there is nothing to separ...    BMW International Open 4th Round Tee Times the Final Round  2008 BMW International Open Tee Times for the final Round 4.  Martin Keymer holds a 6 shot lead as h...    Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  Three  time Major Champion Phil Mickelson is hoping that playing at this  week's Scottish Open will ...    Top 5 US Masters Golf Champions of All Time Ever  The US Masters starts on Thursday (10th April 2008), I have given it some thought and this is my def...    Mickelson looks to address poor form  Reigning Masters champion Phil Mickelson is in nothing like the sort of form he would have hoped, as...     Popularity: 9% [ ? ]     

 

 
 
		  
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST FOR LATEST OFFERS

 

 Enter your Email Address to get latest Golf News and Enter our latest competition


         Delivered by  FeedBurner 

 

  
	Categories:  News 
	 
		Tags: 
 

 
 





 
		 Leave a Reply 


 

  
 Name (required)  

  
 Email (not published) (required)  

  
 Website  


    

  
 
 
 

 You can use these XHTML tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  

 
	 

 
«  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich 
  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  »
 

 

 
 
 
	 
	  Latest  
	  Popular  
	  Sections  
		 

	
	 
		 
		  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
		  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
		  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
		  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
		  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
		  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
		  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
		  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
		  Donald takes top spot  
		  Woods to be fit for US Open  
		 
	 

	
	 
	 

	  Natalie Gulbis Pictures     Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup    Top 10 Golf Books - Live Updates    Buy Cheap Ping G15 Ping Iron from Ebay    Gifts for Golfers from Sparkling Direct    Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010    US Open Golf Championship - Trivia    Live Womens US Open Golf 2009 Coverage    Enjoy a Golfing Break in Devon or Cornwall    Vaughan Wins Senior Open Championship After Playoff   
	 
	 

	
	 
	 
		  Equipment 
 
	  European PGA Tour 
 
	  European Seniors Tour 
 
	  Golf Books 
 
	  Golf Courses 
 
	  Golf Gifts 
 
	  Golf Holidays 
 
	  LPGA Tour 
 
	  News 
 
	  pga tour 
 
	  Players 
 
	  Ryder Cup 
 
	  Tournaments 
 
	  Trivia 
 
	  Tutorials 
 
	  Video 
 
	 
	 

	
 
 


 

 
  

						  
 

 



 
 

	  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		  
	 
       Tags    Augusta National Golf Course 
 Bank Austria GolfOpen 
 barclays 
 BMW Asian Open 
 BMW International Open 
 BMW PGA Championship 
 Celtic Manor Wales Open 
 Darren Clarke 
 features 
 Geoff Ogilvy 
 Graeme Storm 
 irish open 
 Jeev Milkha Singh 
 Johnnie Walker Championship 
 ladies german open 
 Lee Westwood 
 Lorena Ochoa 
 MAPFRE Open de Andalucia 
 Masters 
 Michelle Wie 
 Miguel Angel Jiménez 
 Open de Espana 
 Padraig Harrington 
 Redstone Golf Club 
 ross fisher 
 Safeway International 
 Saint-Omer Open 
 Scottish Open 
 Shell Houston Open 
 Tee Times 
 The KLM Open 
 the open 
 The Open Championship 
 The Senior Open 
 Tiger Woods 
 turnberry 
 US Masters 
 US Masters News 
 US Open 
 uspga 
 Vijay Singh 
 wentworth 
 WGC - Bridgestone Invitational 
 Wyndham Championship 
 Zurich Classic  
    Meta  			 
						  Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  
						 
  
   
 
 
 
	 
	 Vote For Us At The Top 100 Golf Sites 
	 
	Copyright © 2011  Golfing News 
	 
		 Structure theme  by   Justin Tadlock