Phil Mickelson targets Open glory 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 


 
 


 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
			 
			  
			  
   
 
 
	 
		
 



 
 Home  


 
 About  
 
 Our Team  

 
 Contact  
 
 Links  

 


	 
	 
		
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 

 
	   Golfing News 


  

  

 

	 
	  Subscribe by RSS  
	  Subscribe by email  
    
  Facebook Golf Page  
	 



 
 

 
 
 
  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
 By 
 Keith Bond  on 
July 5th, 2011
 
 
  
 

 Three  time Major Champion Phil Mickelson is hoping that playing at this  week’s Scottish Open will prepare him for next week’s Open Championship  at St George’s. 
 Following  the downfall of Tiger Woods, many believed Mickelson would step up and  dominate the Majors, in the mean time reaching the top World Rankings  for the first time in his illustrious career. 
 However,  despite winning the 2010 Masters, he has failed to capitalise on Woods’  absence and currently sits sixth in the World Rankings after only  claiming one other title since his Augusta triumph. 
 However,  Mickelson is unconcerned by his relative lack of form but says he’s  heading to Scotland with the intention of finding some magic that could  help him claim his fourth Major title. Those following  the Open odds  will be wondering if he can find his best form at the right time. 
 “It’s  wide open at the top and starting here at the Barclays I will be  playing almost every week in big events and trying to get a level of  play out of my game that hasn’t been there as often as I would like,” he  said. 
 “I love playing the week before a major and getting acclimatised”. 
 This year’s Scottish Open is somewhat of a landmark in the  events  history due to it being moved to a new venue at Castle Stuart in  Inverness. The tournament has been previously played at picturesque Loch  Lomond but has regularly come under criticism due to the lack  authenticity ahead of the  following week’s Open Championship . 
 The  Loch Lomond layout is mainly a parkland course and the organisers  believe that moving the tournament to a links layout gives the players a  more genuine preparation week and will see them arrive at Royal St  George’s better prepared as they look to win one of the sport’s much  coveted Major Championships. 
      
 Related Posts   Mental Preparation An Important Part Of Golfing Success  A major part of any golfers success at the beautiful game is determined by mental preparation, menta...    Glory For Clarke In The KLM Open  Just a week after his 40th birthday Darren Clarke is celebrating again, he has recorded an emphatic ...    Can a Brit win The Open  Its 10 long years since a golfer from the home nations lifted the famous Claret Jug in The Open Cham...    Jiménez Can Win The Open Golf Championship  Many are saying that without Tiger Woods The 137th Open Golf Championship loses some of its glitter,...    How Phil Mickelson Lost The 2008 U.S. Open  Watch in amazement as Phil Mickelson repeatedly attempts and fails trying the same shot at Torrey Pi...     Popularity: 6% [ ? ]     

 

 
 
		  
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST FOR LATEST OFFERS

 

 Enter your Email Address to get latest Golf News and Enter our latest competition


         Delivered by  FeedBurner 

 

  
	Categories:  News 
	 
		Tags:  features 
 

 
 





 
		 Leave a Reply 


 

  
 Name (required)  

  
 Email (not published) (required)  

  
 Website  


    

  
 
 
 

 You can use these XHTML tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  

 
	 

 
«  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy 
  Putting is key, says Mickelson  »
 

 

 
 
 
	 
	  Latest  
	  Popular  
	  Sections  
		 

	
	 
		 
		  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
		  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
		  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
		  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
		  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
		  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
		  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
		  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
		  Donald takes top spot  
		  Woods to be fit for US Open  
		 
	 

	
	 
	 

	  Natalie Gulbis Pictures     Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup    Top 10 Golf Books - Live Updates    Buy Cheap Ping G15 Ping Iron from Ebay    Gifts for Golfers from Sparkling Direct    Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010    US Open Golf Championship - Trivia    Live Womens US Open Golf 2009 Coverage    Enjoy a Golfing Break in Devon or Cornwall    Vaughan Wins Senior Open Championship After Playoff   
	 
	 

	
	 
	 
		  Equipment 
 
	  European PGA Tour 
 
	  European Seniors Tour 
 
	  Golf Books 
 
	  Golf Courses 
 
	  Golf Gifts 
 
	  Golf Holidays 
 
	  LPGA Tour 
 
	  News 
 
	  pga tour 
 
	  Players 
 
	  Ryder Cup 
 
	  Tournaments 
 
	  Trivia 
 
	  Tutorials 
 
	  Video 
 
	 
	 

	
 
 


 

 
  

						  
 

 



 
 

	  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		  
	 
       Tags    Augusta National Golf Course 
 Bank Austria GolfOpen 
 barclays 
 BMW Asian Open 
 BMW International Open 
 BMW PGA Championship 
 Celtic Manor Wales Open 
 Darren Clarke 
 features 
 Geoff Ogilvy 
 Graeme Storm 
 irish open 
 Jeev Milkha Singh 
 Johnnie Walker Championship 
 ladies german open 
 Lee Westwood 
 Lorena Ochoa 
 MAPFRE Open de Andalucia 
 Masters 
 Michelle Wie 
 Miguel Angel Jiménez 
 Open de Espana 
 Padraig Harrington 
 Redstone Golf Club 
 ross fisher 
 Safeway International 
 Saint-Omer Open 
 Scottish Open 
 Shell Houston Open 
 Tee Times 
 The KLM Open 
 the open 
 The Open Championship 
 The Senior Open 
 Tiger Woods 
 turnberry 
 US Masters 
 US Masters News 
 US Open 
 uspga 
 Vijay Singh 
 wentworth 
 WGC - Bridgestone Invitational 
 Wyndham Championship 
 Zurich Classic  
    Meta  			 
						  Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  
						 
  
   
 
 
 
	 
	 Vote For Us At The Top 100 Golf Sites 
	 
	Copyright © 2011  Golfing News 
	 
		 Structure theme  by   Justin Tadlock