Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 


 
 


 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
			 
			  
			  
   
 
 
	 
		
 



 
 Home  


 
 About  
 
 Our Team  

 
 Contact  
 
 Links  

 


	 
	 
		
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 

 
	   Golfing News 


  

  

 

	 
	  Subscribe by RSS  
	  Subscribe by email  
    
  Facebook Golf Page  
	 



 
 

 
 
 
  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
 By 
 Keith Bond  on 
June 30th, 2011
 
 
  
 

 Ryo Ishikawa says he will be taking major inspiration from fellow youngster Rory McIlroy’s victory at the recent US Open as he heads to Royal St George’s looking to break his duck at July’s Open Championship. 
 No Japanese player has ever won a Major Championship and many have tipped the 19-year-old to break that record after he won his first Japanese Tour victory at the tender age of 15 and impressing alongside Tom Watson at the 2009 Open at Turnberry at only 17. Those looking at the  golf betting  will know he is one for the future. 
 The 19-year-old is yet to claim his maiden victory outside of Japan but it now appears to be only matter of time as he continues to impress week-in-week-out wherever he plays. 
 Ishikawa certainly has the game to win one of the big ones, with his straight driving and excellent short game and will be heading to St George’s with only victory on his mind but admits he still has a long way to go if he is to consistently challenge the world’s top stars and  The Open 2011 golf betting  reflects this. 
 “I have come to know so well how big the gap is between me and the best in the world,” he said. 
 Like everyone else, Ishikawa could only look on in admiration as the 22-year-old Ulsterman brought one of the toughest US Open layouts in history to its knees and Ishikawa says it was truly inspirational to see someone so young perform so well. 
 “He has inspired me much. I think all the young players around the world thought to themselves ‘Why can’t I?’,” Ishikawa said. “I want to reach that level some day.” 
 Related Posts   rory mcilroy masters dream alive after controversy  Young Northern Ireland Golfer Rory McIlroy had an agonising wait yesterday to see if he was going to...    Bet on Rory McIlroy to win a PGA Tour Event  Rory McIlroy put in a fantastic performance at the Omega European Masters 2008 in Crans-sur-Sierre  ...    Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  While most folks are transfixed on Phil Mickleson's Sunday charge at Royal St. Georges, and Darren C...    McDowell’s 68 sets early 2nd round pace  Grame McDowell sezied the 2nd round lead early on Friday with a 68 that put him 3-under-par in the U...    Masters to tee off full of subplots  The first major of the 2009 PGA TOUR season on Thursday, and Augusta National Golf Club will be in f...     Popularity: 7% [ ? ]     

 

 
 
		  
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST FOR LATEST OFFERS

 

 Enter your Email Address to get latest Golf News and Enter our latest competition


         Delivered by  FeedBurner 

 

  
	Categories:  News 
	 
		Tags:  features 
 

 
 





 
		 Leave a Reply 


 

  
 Name (required)  

  
 Email (not published) (required)  

  
 Website  


    

  
 
 
 

 You can use these XHTML tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  

 
	 

 
«  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons 
  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  »
 

 

 
 
 
	 
	  Latest  
	  Popular  
	  Sections  
		 

	
	 
		 
		  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
		  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
		  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
		  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
		  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
		  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
		  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
		  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
		  Donald takes top spot  
		  Woods to be fit for US Open  
		 
	 

	
	 
	 

	  Natalie Gulbis Pictures     Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup    Top 10 Golf Books - Live Updates    Buy Cheap Ping G15 Ping Iron from Ebay    Gifts for Golfers from Sparkling Direct    Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010    US Open Golf Championship - Trivia    Live Womens US Open Golf 2009 Coverage    Enjoy a Golfing Break in Devon or Cornwall    Vaughan Wins Senior Open Championship After Playoff   
	 
	 

	
	 
	 
		  Equipment 
 
	  European PGA Tour 
 
	  European Seniors Tour 
 
	  Golf Books 
 
	  Golf Courses 
 
	  Golf Gifts 
 
	  Golf Holidays 
 
	  LPGA Tour 
 
	  News 
 
	  pga tour 
 
	  Players 
 
	  Ryder Cup 
 
	  Tournaments 
 
	  Trivia 
 
	  Tutorials 
 
	  Video 
 
	 
	 

	
 
 


 

 
  

						  
 

 



 
 

	  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		  
	 
       Tags    Augusta National Golf Course 
 Bank Austria GolfOpen 
 barclays 
 BMW Asian Open 
 BMW International Open 
 BMW PGA Championship 
 Celtic Manor Wales Open 
 Darren Clarke 
 features 
 Geoff Ogilvy 
 Graeme Storm 
 irish open 
 Jeev Milkha Singh 
 Johnnie Walker Championship 
 ladies german open 
 Lee Westwood 
 Lorena Ochoa 
 MAPFRE Open de Andalucia 
 Masters 
 Michelle Wie 
 Miguel Angel Jiménez 
 Open de Espana 
 Padraig Harrington 
 Redstone Golf Club 
 ross fisher 
 Safeway International 
 Saint-Omer Open 
 Scottish Open 
 Shell Houston Open 
 Tee Times 
 The KLM Open 
 the open 
 The Open Championship 
 The Senior Open 
 Tiger Woods 
 turnberry 
 US Masters 
 US Masters News 
 US Open 
 uspga 
 Vijay Singh 
 wentworth 
 WGC - Bridgestone Invitational 
 Wyndham Championship 
 Zurich Classic  
    Meta  			 
						  Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  
						 
  
   
 
 
 
	 
	 Vote For Us At The Top 100 Golf Sites 
	 
	Copyright © 2011  Golfing News 
	 
		 Structure theme  by   Justin Tadlock