Golfing News: Golf News, PGA Tour, European Tour 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 


 
 


  
 
  
 
 

  
			 
			  
			  
   
 
 
	 
		
 



 
 Home  


 
 About  
 
 Our Team  

 
 Contact  
 
 Links  

 


	 
	 
		
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 

 
	   Golfing News 


  

  

 

	 
	  Subscribe by RSS  
	  Subscribe by email  
    
  Facebook Golf Page  
	 



 
 

 
 	 
	  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  


	 
	 By  Keith Bond  on July 5th, 2011 

 Three time Major Champion Phil Mickelson is hoping that playing at this week’s Scottish Open will prepare him for next week’s Open Championship at St George’s. Following the downfall of Tiger Woods, many believed Mickelson would step up and dominate the Majors, in the mean time reaching the top World Rankings for the first time [...] 
 Popularity: 6% [ ? ]   No Comments  | 
	 Read full story »  

   
 

 
	  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
	 
		 Irish duo Rory McIlroy and Graeme McDowell have been speaking positively about their chances of success at the World Cup this week, saying they are determined to improve on two years ago. Ahead of this weekend’s event in China, Ireland were pipped by Italian brothers Francesco and Edoardo Molinari in the final stages, leaving them [...] 
 Popularity: 1% [ ? ] 	 
 

 
	  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
	 
		 The Americans have finally ended their frustrations in the majors. After not winning a title since Phil Mickelson took the 2010 Masters and only winning two of the last 10 “Big Four” events, the American flag finally flew over the trophy winner. Although, with four holes left, the American who thought he had a stranglehold [...] 
 Popularity: 9% [ ? ] 	 
 

 
	  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
	 
		 While most folks are transfixed on Phil Mickleson’s Sunday charge at Royal St. Georges, and Darren Clarke’s best efforts to dodge and parry him and lift the Claret Jug for the first time ever, another interesting head-to-head matchup came clear as earlier groups finished up on 18 at Sandwich. U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy, golf’s [...] 
 Popularity: 7% [ ? ] 	 
 

 
	  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
	 
		 Californian golfer, Phil Mickelson, believes that a ‘change of tactics’ will be necessary at the British Open next week, if he wishes to end his run of poor form on links-style golf courses. Mickelson, despite having won the Masters in 2004, 2006, and 2010, and the PGA Championship in 2005, is routinely outperformed in British [...] 
 Popularity: 10% [ ? ] 	 
 

 
	  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
	 
		 Ryo Ishikawa says he will be taking major inspiration from fellow youngster Rory McIlroy’s victory at the recent US Open as he heads to Royal St George’s looking to break his duck at July’s Open Championship. No Japanese player has ever won a Major Championship and many have tipped the 19-year-old to break that record [...] 
 Popularity: 7% [ ? ] 	 
 

 
	  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
	 
		 Dustin Johnson will head to the Congressional this week looking to banish memories of his shocking final round at Pebble Beach last year. The big hitting American went into the final round of last year’s tournament three shots clear of the rest of the field. An inexplicable round of 82 put paid to his hopes [...] 
 Popularity: 8% [ ? ] 	 
 

 
	  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
	 
		 Colin Montgomerie is in serious danger of missing out on what would be his 22nd consecutive Open Championship, held this year at the Royal St George in Sandwich. The Scottish veteran had a chance to earn his place last week at Sunningdale, only to shoot a horrible six-over par and finish rock bottom and way [...] 
 Popularity: 7% [ ? ] 	 
 

 
	  Donald takes top spot  
	 
		 Luke Donald is now the number one ranked golfer in the world. Donald has knocked free bet favourite Lee Westwood off the top spot after winning the BMW PGA Championship title at Wentworth. The title was secured in dramatic fashion as Donald beat Ryder Cup team-mate Westwood in a play-off after both Englishmen finished level [...] 
 Popularity: 8% [ ? ] 	 
 

 
	  Woods to be fit for US Open  
	 
		 Tiger Woods has revealed that he expects to be fit for the US Open next month after suffering knee, Achilles, calf and back problems over the last few weeks. The most famous individual tournament of all gets under way on 16th June and Woods is confident he can get himself back to fitness in time [...] 
 Popularity: 8% [ ? ] 	 
 

   
  
 

 
 
 
	 
	  Latest  
	  Popular  
	  Sections  
		 

	
	 
		 
		  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
		  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
		  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
		  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
		  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
		  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
		  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
		  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
		  Donald takes top spot  
		  Woods to be fit for US Open  
		 
	 

	
	 
	 

	  Natalie Gulbis Pictures     Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup    Top 10 Golf Books - Live Updates    Buy Cheap Ping G15 Ping Iron from Ebay    Gifts for Golfers from Sparkling Direct    Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010    US Open Golf Championship - Trivia    Live Womens US Open Golf 2009 Coverage    Enjoy a Golfing Break in Devon or Cornwall    Vaughan Wins Senior Open Championship After Playoff   
	 
	 

	
	 
	 
		  Equipment 
 
	  European PGA Tour 
 
	  European Seniors Tour 
 
	  Golf Books 
 
	  Golf Courses 
 
	  Golf Gifts 
 
	  Golf Holidays 
 
	  LPGA Tour 
 
	  News 
 
	  pga tour 
 
	  Players 
 
	  Ryder Cup 
 
	  Tournaments 
 
	  Trivia 
 
	  Tutorials 
 
	  Video 
 
	 
	 

	
 
 


 

 
  

						  
 

 



 
 

	  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		  
	 
       Tags    Augusta National Golf Course 
 Bank Austria GolfOpen 
 barclays 
 BMW Asian Open 
 BMW International Open 
 BMW PGA Championship 
 Celtic Manor Wales Open 
 Darren Clarke 
 features 
 Geoff Ogilvy 
 Graeme Storm 
 irish open 
 Jeev Milkha Singh 
 Johnnie Walker Championship 
 ladies german open 
 Lee Westwood 
 Lorena Ochoa 
 MAPFRE Open de Andalucia 
 Masters 
 Michelle Wie 
 Miguel Angel Jiménez 
 Open de Espana 
 Padraig Harrington 
 Redstone Golf Club 
 ross fisher 
 Safeway International 
 Saint-Omer Open 
 Scottish Open 
 Shell Houston Open 
 Tee Times 
 The KLM Open 
 the open 
 The Open Championship 
 The Senior Open 
 Tiger Woods 
 turnberry 
 US Masters 
 US Masters News 
 US Open 
 uspga 
 Vijay Singh 
 wentworth 
 WGC - Bridgestone Invitational 
 Wyndham Championship 
 Zurich Classic  
    Meta  			 
						  Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  
						 
  
   
 
 
 
	 
	 Vote For Us At The Top 100 Golf Sites 
	 
	Copyright © 2011  Golfing News 
	 
		 Structure theme  by   Justin Tadlock