Woods to be fit for US Open 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 


 
 


 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
			 
			  
			  
   
 
 
	 
		
 



 
 Home  


 
 About  
 
 Our Team  

 
 Contact  
 
 Links  

 


	 
	 
		
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 

 
	   Golfing News 


  

  

 

	 
	  Subscribe by RSS  
	  Subscribe by email  
    
  Facebook Golf Page  
	 



 
 

 
 
 
  Woods to be fit for US Open  
 By 
 Keith Bond  on 
May 27th, 2011
 
 
  
 

 Tiger Woods has revealed that he expects to be fit for the US Open next month after suffering knee, Achilles, calf and back problems over the last few weeks. 
 The most famous individual tournament of all gets under way on 16th June and Woods is confident he can get himself back to fitness in time despite struggling to walk the last time he played. 
 The American has been wearing a protective boot on his left foot though and  sports betting  pundits note how this should speed up the recovery as well as show how determined he is not to miss the event. 
 Speaking about his progress, Woods said: “I feel that, in the next week or so, I can start practising pain free. That’s where I’m at.” 
 His doctors have then said that there is no need for further surgery, something Woods is clearly relieved about. He can now focus on getting himself ready for the US Open. 
 It has certainly been a frustrating time for him and this was highlighted by post on his Twitter account ahead of speaking to the press on Tuesday. 
 He stated that he would donate $1m to his foundation if nobody asked him about his leg. Quite frankly, he is fed up of talking about it and just wants to get back to playing golf again. 
 Then, he can work on moving up the world rankings again. In recent weeks, he has dropped outside of the top ten for the first time in 14 years and he currently sits in 12th position. 
 Defending this fall, Woods said: “I haven’t played. It’s one of the reasons I’ve fallen as far as I have. When I did play, I haven’t played well. Winning takes care of all of that.” 
 The 35-year-old would love to get back to winning ways at the US Open, something those placing  sports bets  are bound to consider. That would be fantastic for his confidence and for his rehabilitation process. 
      
 Related Posts   Woods forces us open play off with Mediate  

	
		 



	



The US Open will go to a 5th day as Tiger Woods holed a birdie on th...    Woods WD from Players — will Westwood win?  Tiger Woods has withdrawn in the midst of the final round of The Players Championship. After playing...    Tiger Woods is Winner of US Open Golf 2008  



Tiger Woods finally won his 14th Major Title when he won the US Open after the first sudden ...    Tiger Woods US Open Red Shirt Review  Tiger Woods won his third US Open Golf tournament at Torrey Pines in San Diego California overlookin...    Geoff Ogilvy Ahead By One Shot In Miami  Australian Geoff Ogilvy managed to stave off the the charge of Tiger Woods to stay ahead by just one...     Popularity: 8% [ ? ]     

 

 
 
		  
JOIN OUR MAILING LIST FOR LATEST OFFERS

 

 Enter your Email Address to get latest Golf News and Enter our latest competition


         Delivered by  FeedBurner 

 

  
	Categories:  News 
	 
		Tags:  features 
 

 
 





 
		 Leave a Reply 


 

  
 Name (required)  

  
 Email (not published) (required)  

  
 Website  


    

  
 
 
 

 You can use these XHTML tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  

 
	 

 
«  Vijay Singh’s US Open chances look slim 
  Donald takes top spot  »
 

 

 
 
 
	 
	  Latest  
	  Popular  
	  Sections  
		 

	
	 
		 
		  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
		  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
		  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
		  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
		  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
		  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
		  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
		  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
		  Donald takes top spot  
		  Woods to be fit for US Open  
		 
	 

	
	 
	 

	  Natalie Gulbis Pictures     Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup    Top 10 Golf Books - Live Updates    Buy Cheap Ping G15 Ping Iron from Ebay    Gifts for Golfers from Sparkling Direct    Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010    US Open Golf Championship - Trivia    Live Womens US Open Golf 2009 Coverage    Enjoy a Golfing Break in Devon or Cornwall    Vaughan Wins Senior Open Championship After Playoff   
	 
	 

	
	 
	 
		  Equipment 
 
	  European PGA Tour 
 
	  European Seniors Tour 
 
	  Golf Books 
 
	  Golf Courses 
 
	  Golf Gifts 
 
	  Golf Holidays 
 
	  LPGA Tour 
 
	  News 
 
	  pga tour 
 
	  Players 
 
	  Ryder Cup 
 
	  Tournaments 
 
	  Trivia 
 
	  Tutorials 
 
	  Video 
 
	 
	 

	
 
 


 

 
  

						  
 

 



 
 

	  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		  
	 
       Tags    Augusta National Golf Course 
 Bank Austria GolfOpen 
 barclays 
 BMW Asian Open 
 BMW International Open 
 BMW PGA Championship 
 Celtic Manor Wales Open 
 Darren Clarke 
 features 
 Geoff Ogilvy 
 Graeme Storm 
 irish open 
 Jeev Milkha Singh 
 Johnnie Walker Championship 
 ladies german open 
 Lee Westwood 
 Lorena Ochoa 
 MAPFRE Open de Andalucia 
 Masters 
 Michelle Wie 
 Miguel Angel Jiménez 
 Open de Espana 
 Padraig Harrington 
 Redstone Golf Club 
 ross fisher 
 Safeway International 
 Saint-Omer Open 
 Scottish Open 
 Shell Houston Open 
 Tee Times 
 The KLM Open 
 the open 
 The Open Championship 
 The Senior Open 
 Tiger Woods 
 turnberry 
 US Masters 
 US Masters News 
 US Open 
 uspga 
 Vijay Singh 
 wentworth 
 WGC - Bridgestone Invitational 
 Wyndham Championship 
 Zurich Classic  
    Meta  			 
						  Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  
						 
  
   
 
 
 
	 
	 Vote For Us At The Top 100 Golf Sites 
	 
	Copyright © 2011  Golfing News 
	 
		 Structure theme  by   Justin Tadlock