Our Team 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

  
			 
			  
			  
   
 
 
	 
		
 



 
 Home  


 
 About  
 
 Our Team  

 
 Contact  
 
 Links  

 


	 
	 
		
 
 
 
 
 
	 
 

 
	   Golfing News 


  

  

 

	 
	  Subscribe by RSS  
	  Subscribe by email  
    
  Facebook Golf Page  
	 



 
 

 
  
  Our Team  

 
 MEET THE GOLFING NEWS TEAM 
 The idea for Golfing News came about when like minded Golf writers Keith Bond and Martin Warn got talking about the need for a fast paced golf news site,  www.golfingnews.org.uk  is the result of that initial conversation.  Keith and Martin have put together an experienced team of writers and ex golf pros to ensure a top standard of Golf news articles. Our Mission is to get golf results online fastest. 
 Keith Bond, Editor. Keith began his career in journalism, in 1977 as a cub reporter on a provincial newspaper in the South Durham area, like all new journalists he started with school fetes and country shows, luckily for Keith in the North East of England those events usually involve a fair amount of sport, the sports editor quickly realised this aspiring new talent had a way with words and he became the junior sports reporter. Over the years Keith has worked on a number of newspapers and websites covering the full spectrum of sports, especially football, horse racing and the love of his life, Golf. 
 Martin Warn, Chief Golf News Writer. Martin Warn used to be a freelance golf journalist, having his article published in national newspapers as well as specialist golf publications.    Martin has experience of covering major tournament both in the US and European golf tours.   Martin is a Co founder of Golfingnews.org.uk and he also writes for Betting News Site Betting-Portal.com 
 Tom Masterton – Uses the by-line “Old Tom”, Tom is a retired semi-professional golfer who was very active on the courses along the North Yorkshire coast and Lincolnshire during the 1980’s and 90’s. Since retiring Tom keeps himself active by nurturing young golfers and giving them the benefit of his years of wisdom. One thing Tom has always planned to do is write a book about basic golf techniques and how the everyday golfer can knock many strokes off his handicap by following a few simple rules, however he keeps putting it off, much preferring to be out on the course playing a round or too. Golfing News is happy to publish any words of wisdom Tom sends our way; maybe they will one day form the basis of that book. 
 Woody Perez, US Tour Correspondent.  Woody is based in Orlando Florida and provides our Golf News from the US PGA US Tour.  Woody joined us after working as a freelance journalist covering a variety of sports.  Woody was a promising golfer in his youth winning many State tournaments, before a knee injury ended his golf career so he turned to writing.   We are lucky to have him on our team. 
 Sara Jones  LPGA Staff Writer. Sara Jones joined us recently to boost our coverage of the Women’s Golf Tours.   Sara trained as a Fleet Street journalist, but recently started a family, and is working freelance for Golfing News whilst looking after her young family. 
 Related Posts   Neumann to captain the Solheim Cup team  The captain for the European Team has been announced, and Sweden's Liselotte Neumann will get the ho...    European Ryder Cup Team Announced  Nick Faldo European Team Captain has picked his 12 for Team Europe  to compete for the 37th Ryder Cu...    Ryder Cup European Pairings Leaked Drama  The Ryder Cup tees off tommorow ( Friday 19th September 2008 ) and already there has been Controvers...    McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  Irish duo      Rory McIlroy and Graeme McDowell have been speaking positively about their      chanc...    Ian Woosnam Profile  In the run up to the Masters in April we are going to profile some of the masters champion greats. W...     Popularity: 2% [ ? ]     
 

 
 
		 Leave a Reply 


 

  
 Name (required)  

  
 Email (not published) (required)  

  
 Website  


    

  
 
 
 

 You can use these XHTML tags: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  

 
	 

 

 
 
 
	 
	  Latest  
	  Popular  
	  Sections  
		 

	
	 
		 
		  McDowell and McIlroy aim for World Cup glory  
		  Bradley brings major title to U.S.A.  
		  Tom Watson beats McIlroy at Sandwich  
		  Putting is key, says Mickelson  
		  Phil Mickelson targets Open glory  
		  Ishikawa inspired by McIlroy  
		  Dustin Johnson looks to banish US Open demons  
		  Time running out for Monty’s Open hopes  
		  Donald takes top spot  
		  Woods to be fit for US Open  
		 
	 

	
	 
	 

	  Natalie Gulbis Pictures     Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup    Top 10 Golf Books - Live Updates    Buy Cheap Ping G15 Ping Iron from Ebay    Gifts for Golfers from Sparkling Direct    Martin Kaymer wins Abu Dhabi Championship 2010    US Open Golf Championship - Trivia    Live Womens US Open Golf 2009 Coverage    Enjoy a Golfing Break in Devon or Cornwall    Vaughan Wins Senior Open Championship After Playoff   
	 
	 

	
	 
	 
		  Equipment 
 
	  European PGA Tour 
 
	  European Seniors Tour 
 
	  Golf Books 
 
	  Golf Courses 
 
	  Golf Gifts 
 
	  Golf Holidays 
 
	  LPGA Tour 
 
	  News 
 
	  pga tour 
 
	  Players 
 
	  Ryder Cup 
 
	  Tournaments 
 
	  Trivia 
 
	  Tutorials 
 
	  Video 
 
	 
	 

	
 
 


 

 
  

						  
 

 



 
 

	  Why the Americans won the Ryder Cup  
	 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
	 
		  
	 
       Tags    Augusta National Golf Course 
 Bank Austria GolfOpen 
 barclays 
 BMW Asian Open 
 BMW International Open 
 BMW PGA Championship 
 Celtic Manor Wales Open 
 Darren Clarke 
 features 
 Geoff Ogilvy 
 Graeme Storm 
 irish open 
 Jeev Milkha Singh 
 Johnnie Walker Championship 
 ladies german open 
 Lee Westwood 
 Lorena Ochoa 
 MAPFRE Open de Andalucia 
 Masters 
 Michelle Wie 
 Miguel Angel Jiménez 
 Open de Espana 
 Padraig Harrington 
 Redstone Golf Club 
 ross fisher 
 Safeway International 
 Saint-Omer Open 
 Scottish Open 
 Shell Houston Open 
 Tee Times 
 The KLM Open 
 the open 
 The Open Championship 
 The Senior Open 
 Tiger Woods 
 turnberry 
 US Masters 
 US Masters News 
 US Open 
 uspga 
 Vijay Singh 
 wentworth 
 WGC - Bridgestone Invitational 
 Wyndham Championship 
 Zurich Classic  
    Meta  			 
						  Log in  
			  Entries  RSS   
			  Comments  RSS   
			  WordPress.org  
						 
  
   
 
 
 
	 
	 Vote For Us At The Top 100 Golf Sites 
	 
	Copyright © 2011  Golfing News 
	 
		 Structure theme  by   Justin Tadlock