Professional Golfers Career College - (800) 877-4380 
   
    
    
    
    
  

		
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  	
  
  
  
  
  
	
		 
	 
		
					 
				 
							 
						    		 
         
             
                 
			 
             
                 
			 
                           
                                  
                    Forgot your password?  
			                            
             
             
             
                      
         
			 
	
				 
			 
				
		
		 
			 
												 
					
				 
								  
			 
		 
		
		
		 
			 
									   About PGCC    Administration    President & Founder    Advisory Board    Golf Professionals      History    PGCC Mission    Why PGCC?    Locations    Hilton Head    Temecula    Orlando      FAQ    Contact Info    Directions      Academics    Curriculum    Class Sequence    Class Descriptions    Transfer Credits    Academic Calendar    Accreditation      Golf Program    Courses    Lessons    Tournaments      Admissions    Admissions Process    Tuition & Fees    Financial Aid    Net Price Calcuator    Veterans Benefits    International Students    Student Housing    Application      Placement    How It Works    Success Stories    List of Employers      Bookstore    PGCC News    PGCC Partners with WWP    Wally Armstrong at PGCC    IJGT Tournament    Million Dollar Shot    Students Lead WOC Clinic    Faculty in PGA Hall of Fame      Consumer Info    Alumni    Request Info   							 
		 
		
		
				 
			 
				 
					 
								 
						 
		  
		  
	 
	  
		 
	
					 
				 
			 
		 
				
		
				
		
		 
			 
				  
				  
				 
					 
						 
							
														
							
							 
								 
																																				
									
 



 
 
   
  Welcome to PGCC  
   So you want to break into the golf business? Well, you’ve come to the right place.   Welcome to Professional Golfers Career College, one of the most unique institutions in the world. PGCC has campuses on both coast in Temecula - California, Orlando - Florida, and Hilton Head - South Carolina. PGCC is an accredited golf college that offers a specialized Associate’s Degree in Professional Golf Management. If you're looking for a golf college program that provides a thorough golf education for a distinguished career in the golf industry including golf management, golf instruction and golf business, PGCC is the golf school you need to attend. Your education will help you break into the rewarding and challenging golf industry in an array of fields, such as golf instruction, golf sales, golf marketing, and golf administration.                   Watch Our Video        WMV File   (9.7mb)    Our graduates have been placed in positions as golf professionals, teaching professionals, tournament directors, golf administrators, general managers of country clubs, and sales representatives of leading golf club and apparel companies.    If you are serious about a future in the golf industry, we encourage you to click on any of the tabs above and learn more about how people just like you have turned their passion into a profession.   Call us now at 800-877-4380 now for more information.        
 

 
 

																	 
							 
							
							
															 
									 
																						 
			 
				 
					 
											          Request Free Information Packet  					 
				 
			 
		 
			 
			 
				 
					 
													 Latest News 
											 
	 
		 
			Wounded Warrior Wins Scholarship to PGCC 
	 
	 
		 
			Golf Great Wally Armstrong Pays  a Visit to PGCC 
	 
	 
		 
			PGCC Orlando Students Help Run Bridgestone Golf Tournament of Champions 
	 
	 
		 
			Hilton Head Student's Near Million Dollar Shot 
	 
	 
		 
			Hilton Head Students Lead Week of Champions   Clinic 
	 
 					 
				 
			 
		 
	
									 
								 
														
						 
					 
				 
			 
		 
		
		 
					 
		
				
		
		 
			 
				  ©2004-2010 Professional Golfers Career College. All rights Reserved.
				 
									 
								 
					    Contact Us  Request Info  Net Price Calcuator