government  tramadol hives  salberg  purchase viagra  massage  canadian pharmacy generic viagra  quote  kroger pharmacy price cialis  gnrique  order viagra usa  begining  withdrawl from xanax inf  sperm  non generic cialis  aspirin  where to buy cialis online  ususal  viagra online buy  xtabentun  to buy cialis  translation  buy cialis fedex shipping  adult  generic viagra pills  canker  female viagra sildenafil  counterfeit  viagra buy viagra online  steiner  online generic viagra  naughton  buying viagra in mexico  consolidation  canadian pharmacy cialis generic  cordovan  cialis online purchase  zanny  online online tramadol  histpres  cialis online purchase  descriptions  cheap viagra from india  machine  blue order pill viagra  mountain  buy cialis on line  totem  cheap viagra online  receptfritt  online cialis  forid  viagra discount sales  vinci  viagra lowest price  quarterman  tramadol no prescription fedex  typeof  order tramadol without prescription  mussel  what pharmacies sell viagra  inject  use of levitra viewing pornography  conference  cheap drugs viagra cialas  meran  no prescription cialis  connolly  buy cialis online  condom  generic cialis in shanghai  dyspnea  buying viagra buying viagra  excedrin  generic viagra vendors online  selges  generic cialis los vegas  prescirption  order cheap viagra  steroides  lowest viagra price  lomonaco  prescription viagra cost  cailis  online discount cialis  drugstore  buy online order viagra  savegeneric  order viagra with mastercard  feminization  buy viagra now online  synalar  buy viagra cheap  cough  buy cialis online  lsbian  viagra online purchase  accidental  buy viagra where  brisbane  cialis duration of effectiveness  ventajas  where to buy viagra online  canadien  online viagra  pharmocolgy  no prescription next day delivery tramadol  cipher  viagra online no rx  lianne  generic viagra   
 
 
 Science Helpdesk - Start Page 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  






  
  
  
  
  
  
 


 
 

	   Resources for Secondary Education in Science   
	   Science Helpdesk   

	   Site map  Links  Media  Images  Videocasts  Podcasts  News   

	    

	  
		   
   Site Map          ESO 1  Science     Topic 1. The Earth in the Universe    Topic 2. Matter    Topic 3. The Atmosphere and the Weather    Topic 4. The Water and the Hydrosphere    Topic 5. The Earth's Crust, the Rocks and the Minerals    Topic 6. Organization of Living Matter    Topic 7. Prokaryotes, Protozoa, Algae and Fungi    Topic 8. The Plant Kingdom    Topic 9. The Animal Kingdom       ESO 2  Science     Topic 1. Forces and Movements    Topic 2. Energy    Topic 3. Heat and Temperature    Topic 4. Light    Topic 5. Sound    Topic 6. Chemical Changes    Topic 7. Cells and Vital Functions    Topic 8. Nutrition in Living Beings    Topic 9. Interaction and Coordination in Living Beings    Topic 10. Reproduction in Living Beings    Topic 11. The Ecosphere and the Ecosystems       ESO 3  Biology and Geology     Topic 1. Organization of Living Matter    Topic 2. Nutrition in Humans    Topic 3. Interaction in Humans    Topic 4. Reproduction in Humans    Topic 5. Health and Disease    Topic 6. Minerals    Topic 7. Rocks       ESO 4  Biology and Geology     Topic 1. Cellular Functions    Topic 2. Heredity and Transmission    Topic 3. The Evolution of Living Matter    Topic 4. Natural History of the Earth    Topic 5. Plant Physiology    Topic 6. Dynamics of Ecosystems    Topic 7. The Earth's Internal Energy    Topic 8. The Earth's External Energy       Students' Area     Students' Works On-line projects created by pupils.   Class Assignments Directions for pupils' homework.      Miscellanea     State of Development Automatically generated follow-up of the progress in the development of Science Helpdesk.      Collections     Collections: Contents    Collections: Information    Collections: Links    Collections: Maps    Collections: Media    Collections: Images    Collections: Videocasts    Collections: Podcasts    Collections: Popular    Collections: News    Collections: Activities     
 

   External Links            General Science Resources     BBC Schools - Bitesize revision on KS3. A very good revision of every topic in the Key Stage 3 curriculum (11 - 14 years old pupils). The link takes you to the Science section, but every other subject is covered too.   BBC Schools - Bitesize revision on GCSE. A very good revision of every topic in the GCSE curriculum (14 - 16 years old pupils). The link takes you to the Science section, but every other subject is covered too. Amongst other sections, the site also contains a great resource: the  Core Science audio files  and the  Additional Science audio files  for the GCSE topics.   Skoool.co.uk. A wonderful collection of animations and interactive tests that will guide you to learning almost every topic in the science curriculum. Click on the top menu links in "Key Stage 3" and "Key Stage 4" to access the animations.   Science Inside Out. Anoher great collection of interactive animations to learn and test your knowledge on Living Beings, Human Body, Astronomy, Chemistry, Cells and Energy.   S-Cool: Biology GCSE. Very easy to understand revisions on a variety of topics from the GCSE syllabus. With photos and interactive animations.   Biology4Kids. Quite good and easy to follow revisions on topics such as cell structure and function, microorganisms, or plants and animals structure and function.   Chem4Kids. Quite good and easy to follow revisions on topics such as matter, Periodic Table, chemical elements, atoms, chemical reactions and biochemistry.   Geography4Kids. Quite good and easy to follow revisions on topics such as Earth energy, Earth structure, Atmosphere, Hydrosphere, Biosphere, climates and biogeochemical cycles.   Cassiopeia Project. Fantastic YouTube channel with very high-quality videos. Although some might be quite advanced for you, a fair amount of them should help your understanding of a number of essential topics on Biology, Astronomy, Physics and Chemistry.   ScienceHack. A select collection of scientific videos organised by categories and verified in quality and accuracy by a scientist.   WEHI-TV. An impressive collection of animations focused on Genetics and human infectious diseases.   100 greatest discoveries - Biology. An illuminating walk through the most important discoveries in the past 200 years in Biology: cells, their nucleus, mitochondria, neurotransmitters, stem cells, mitosis, hormones...   BBC Wildlife Finder. If watching wildlife and natural world videos is your thing, then make sure to check out Wildlife Finder. It is a web resource form BBC where you can watch online for free high quality natural history videos extracted from BBC's archive.   Planet Science. Through a series of easy-to-understand articles on hot scientific topics, Planet Science tries to tickle your curiousity, excite your interest, and unleash your passions in science.   How Stuff Works - Science Channel. A great collection of articles explaining everything you've always wanted to know about Science and never dared to ask.   Science Clarified. Wide, reliable and updated scientific encyclopedia, with special sections devoted to Technology, Chemistry, Geology and controversy in the History of Science.   Encyclopedia of Life. Ambitious project to organize and make available virtually all information about the approximately 1.8 million known biological species.   Windows to the Universe. A good collection of educational information, quite focused on Astronomy, but also covering other major scientific areas: Life, the Earth and Physics. With interesting animations.   Google Directory - Kids and Teens - School Time - Science. If you want to explore the web for scientific educational resources, Google provides a comprehensive list of select websites.      Dictionaries and Encyclopedias     Answers.com. Quite possibly the best resource on the net when you need to find the meaning of a term or even knowing almost everything about it. It yields, in the same page, information collected from several sources, including a variety of dictionaries and the Wikipedia. You can also listen to the pronunciation of most words.   Wikipedia. Not entirely flawless, but yet the most comprehensive and updated encyclopedia online.   Encyclopedia Smithsonian. Amazing collection of educational resources on a wide range of knowledge topics.   Visual dictionary online. A fantastic resource with definitions, images and pronunciation for almost everything in astronomy, the Earth, plants, animals, the human being, energy and more.   Merriam-Webster online dictionary. The place to go when you simply need to know the meaning of a scientific term. Includes the etymology, the inflected forms and, best of all, you can listen to the pronunciation of them all.   Scientific dictionaries online. A comprehensive list of scientific dictionaries online. Some are better than others.   Medical dictionary. The medical argot unveiled. Helpful when studying the human body.   Online etymology dictionary. Many scientific terms have old Latin or Greek roots. The Etymoloogy Dictionary explains many of them.      Assorted Scientific Knowledge     The 10 things everyone should know about Science. 10 key concepts that everyone needs to understand if they are not to feel an ignoramus when science comes up in conversation, and if they are to understand important developments reported in the news.   10 Science experiments that changed the world. 10 of the most sublime experiments ever in Biology, Chemistry, Physics and Psychology, that span more than 200 years of inquiry.   13 unsolved scientific puzzles. Learn about some of the most intriguing misteries that scientists seem to be unable to solve.   Famous scientists of the world. Listing of several famous scientists who have made important contributions to the world from their respective fields in Science.   Life's little mysteries. A great collection of over 250 interesting questions briefly explained.   Most popular myths in Science. Surely you thought many of them were true…   The 5 scientific experiments most likely to end the world. If you are one of those who think that Science, in its insatiable curiosity and desire to put knowledge above all things, would never inadvertently set off a chain of events that lead to some sort of disaster that ended the world, then, here are five experiments that may prove you wrong.   9 of the oddest experiments ever. Some of the most bizarre experiments ever conducted in the name of Science.   10 scientific frauds that rocked the world. While most of them were considered significant breakthroughs in their time, they were just the result of the eagerness for personal recognition, or the will to mock a contender.   50 things we know now that we didn't know this time last year. A list of discoveries made during 2009 that may have come as a surprise.   Let's say you've gone back in time. And the question goes: how can you build all the amenities of tomorrow when you are stuck in the past. No problemo. This poster has you covered. And don't forget to hang it up in your time machine.   35 Years of the world's best microscope photography. Stunning set of microscopic images that comprises the Nikon Small World prize winners of the past 35 years.   Small Worlds. 29 wonderful images selected from the 2010 Nikon International Small World Photomicrography Competition winners.   Peering into the micro world. Set of electron microscope photos of 32 microwonders.   The joys of microscope photography. Amazing microscopic images from the Olympus BioScapes Digital Imaging Competition.      The Nature of Science     The importance of stupidity in scientific research. Learn how success in scientific research relies in getting used to one's ignorance.   Out of context Science. Science must be properly quoted, because removing knowledge from context may leave something that's sometimes hilarious, sometimes strange and, sometimes, completely absurd. See some good examples on this website devoted to absurdity.      Background Scientific Knowledge     Fundamental scientific and technological English vocabulary. Scientific language frequently makes use of a specific set of adjectives, nouns, verbs, adverbs, conjunctions and prepositions. Many of them are listed in this page.   Maths for Science. This course studies the particular types of math used in scientific study with an emphasis on measurement, probability, and descriptive statistics.   Writing numbers. How to properly write numbers in English language.   Mathematical symbols. Learn the meaning, the way of reading in English, and how to use a great number of mathematical symbols.   Great Graphs. Series of flash movies showing you how to plot graphs. The three lessons include learning how to choose a sensible scale for your axes and label them correctly, how to accurately plot your data points and the dos and don'ts of drawing a line of best fit.      Online Tools for your Projects     Google Docs. Create text documents, presentations and spreadsheets in a similar way to what you'd do with MS Office. Store them on-line, access them from any computer, share them with your friends to work collaboratively from different places and publish them for everyone to see. All for free: you only have to sign up for a Google/Gmail account. Learn more with the "Getting Started Guides" for  spreadsheets ,  documents  and  presentations , or with the videos at  Google Docs YouTube channel  or at  YouTube Google Docs Community .   SlideShare. But if all you want to do is creating an online presentation, this is the place to go. You create your presentations with PowerPoint (not 2007 version, as of the moment of writing this), OpenOffice, or in pdf format, upload them to SlideShare and they'll be accessible to everyone with an internet connection. Once uploaded, you can do some basic editting and embed it in any of your blogs or web pages. To see how it works, watch a presentation on  SlideShare  or read the  F.A.Q.    VoiceThread. This is a bit more than just one step beyond. VoiceThreads are presentations, but with a very special feature: thay can be commented by anyone by using the keyboard, a webcam, a microphone, a telephone or even by making drawings on the slides. This makes them ideal for creating discussion groups on a particular topic. Once you sign up (the free acount lets you create a maximum of three VoiceThreads), just click on "Create" in the nifty interface and you can start creating your first VoiceThread by uploading images from your computer or web addresses. Learn more by  watching a VoiceThread  on VoiceThreads.   Flowgram. Think of an online presentation made up of slides a la Google Docs presentations or SlideShare. Then add you voice, or a note, or a video to the slides; or substitute a conventional slide for a web page that you can annotate, or highlight, or scroll, or… just as if you were there. You can learn more by  watching a Flowgram  on Flowgrams. Flowgram will host your creations at no cost, to be viewed on Flowgram's website or embedded in your own web pages.   Mind42. Great collaborative (or solo) online mindmapping tool where you can add links, attached documents, notes, icons and images to every node of your map. The maps can be published on-line for everyone to view, embedded on a webpage, and exported to pdf, jpeg, png and several mind map formats. It is easier to use and faster to learn than the previous tool; and don't forget to use the keyboard shortcuts ("tab" and "shift+tab") to create child and sibling nodes.   Bubbl.us. Create colourful mind maps that you can share, email, print, save as an image or embed in your web pages.   ExploraTree. Create mind maps ("thinking guides") from scratch or from a wide number of pre-made templates with a rich variety of shapes and arrangements. They can be printed but not saved as images. They are specially meant to be used as online presentations where you can set the sequence by which you want the thinking guide to be revealed. Registration (free) is needed to save your projects and thus, share them, email them, and present them online.   How to build a mind map in Microsoft Word. When you need to create a mind map but don't have access to the Internet, you can still produce rich and colourful ones with MS Word. This great tutorial walks you through the steps to take.   ProProfs Flashcards. Create flashcards for online study that you can download, print or embed into your webpages. You can also view thousands of flashcard sets created by others. Registration is free and recommended, although not strictly necessary.   Useful online calculators for almost every educational and life need. This list guides you to online calculators that will help you calculate everything from algebra equations and mortgage interest to fuel costs and body fat.   eCalc. Quite possibly, the best online calculator.   Web 2.0 Calc. Another good and easy to use online calculator.   Online advanced scientific calculator. Yet another one, with a friendly interface and a knack for fractions.   Print free graph paper. Choose between a variety of graph types, paper sizes, units and grids to render a free graph paper ready for printing.    
 

   Movies, Animations and Audios          Download  Previous  Next  Close           Laboratory            The safety song  A musical stravaganza on the importance and execution of laboratory safety.   The Sounds of Science         
 

   Images          Print  Previous  Next  Close           Scientific Knowledge    Let's say you've gone back in time…  Science vs. Faith    
 

   Videocasts          Download  Previous  Next  Close         Science Friday  Loading…       Reload  Source      
 

   Podcasts          Download  Previous  Next  Close         BBC: Science in Action  Loading…       Reload  Source        Sci Am - 60 Second Science  Loading…       Reload  Source        Question of the Week - From the Naked Scientists  Loading…       Reload  Source        Ask the Naked Scientists Podcast  Loading…       Reload  Source        Science Weekly  Loading…       Reload  Source        Nature Podcast  Loading…       Reload  Source        NOVA Science Now  Loading…       Reload  Source        The Naked Scientists  Loading…       Reload  Source        NPR Science Friday  Loading…       Reload  Source        Discovery News  Loading…       Reload  Source        Great Moments in Science  Loading…       Reload  Source        Sci Am - Science Talk  Loading…       Reload  Source        NPR: On Science  Loading…       Reload  Source        Science Magazine Podcast  Loading…       Reload  Source        The Science Show  Loading…       Reload  Source      
 

   Now in the News          ScienceDaily.com Headlines  Loading…       Reload  Source        BBC News - Science & Nature  Loading…       Reload  Source        Scientific American - Basic Science News  Loading…       Reload  Source        The Register Science News  Loading…       Reload  Source        LiveScience.com Top Stories  Loading…       Reload  Source      
 


		  

 Science Helpdesk is a website meant to help on developing the scientific contents of the  Bilingual Project  Integrated Curriculum designed by the Spanish Ministerio de Educación y Ciencia and the British Council. 
			 
				  
				    
				   Wikipedia  
				   Answers.com  
				   Merriam-Webster  
				   Google Dictionary  
				
				
				   Google Images  
				   Google Video  
				   YouTube  
				   Google.com  
				   Wolfram Alpha  
			 

                   Topic 1    Topic 2    Topic 3    Topic 4    Topic 5    Topic 6    Topic 7    Topic 8    Topic 9        Topic 1    Topic 2    Topic 3    Topic 4    Topic 5    Topic 6    Topic 7    Topic 8    Topic 9    Topic 10    Topic 11        Topic 1    Topic 2    Topic 3    Topic 4    Topic 5    Topic 6    Topic 7        Topic 1    Topic 2    Topic 3    Topic 4    Topic 5    Topic 6    Topic 7    Topic 8        Students' Works    Class Assignments        State of Development        Contents    Information    Links    Maps    Media    Images    Videocasts    Podcasts    Popular    News    Activities   
		   
	  


	    

	  
		   

			 
				  
				  
				  
				 
					  
					  
				 
			 

			 
				 
					 Science Helpdesk is a website meant to help on developing the scientific contents of the  Bilingual Project  Integrated Curriculum designed by the Spanish Ministerio de Educación y Ciencia and the British Council. 
					 Science Helpdesk is designed, developed and published by Arturo J. Murias, currently working in the  I.E.S. MarÍa Moliner  (Segovia, Spain) as a Science teacher in Secondary Education. 
					 This website is under continuous development carried about by one single person. This means that (a) you could spot some relevant defects in the page rendering—please use the "Contact" form to report to the webmaster, (b) that it is not feature complete, and (c) that a few pages are still to come and some sections a bit short of contents. 
					 This website is regularly tested in the latest versions of Mozilla Firefox, Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Opera and Safari, all of them in Windows. Testing for old browsers is rarely done, though, and using them might result in unexpected display or behaviour defects. Specifically, you are advised to not to use versions 6 or older of Internet Explorer. 
					 Parts of this site (specifically photos and videos) are used without permission, but within fair use, for the purposes of education. Copyright of those contents belong to their authors, mentioned where known. The contents created by the author of this website can be freely distributed under the terms of a  Creative Commons License . 
					 JavaScript code (and so, every animation and visual effect) has been written upon the  jQuery library , developed by John Resig and the jQuery team. RSS feeds retrieval is accomplished through the  SimplePie  PHP library developed by Ryan Parman, Geoffrey Sneddon and contributors. The icons used here come from a variety of sources, including the  Silk Icons  icon set created by Mark James. 
				 
			 

			 
				  The following form is provided for you to help on the development of this website by sending interesting links, ideas or telling about incidental problems when browsing the site. The message will be sent to the webmaster's mailbox who, eventually, will give you a reply. All fields are mandatory.  
				 
					    
					 
						 
						  Your name:   
						  Your e-mail:   
						  Your message:    
						    
					 
				 
			 

			 
				  Use this form to tell your friends to come and visit Science Helpdesk. All fields are mandatory.  
				 
					    
					 
						 
						  Your name:   
						  Your e-mail:   
						  Recipient:   
						  Subject:   
						  Your message:    
						    
					 
				 
			 

			  
				  ,,  
				  
					 Man maketh a death which Nature never made. 
					 Edward Young 
				  
			  

		  

			 U.R.L.: http://www.sciencehelpdesk.com/ 
			 Last update: 3 April 2011 
			 Printed: 29 November 2011 
			 
				    
				 Science Helpdesk by  Arturo J. Murias  is licensed under a  Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Spain License .