Frank Potter's Science Gems 
 
 
 Frank  Potter's Science Gems 




 Great links to Great Science Resources 
 ***** For students, parents, teachers, scientists, engineers and mathematicians. ***** 
 More than 14,000 Science Resources sorted by Category, Subcategory, and Grade Level
 
 
 
 
 
Search Query  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search example: einst* for "einstein"
 
 
 
 
 
Latest update:

Tuesday, November 29, 2011

 
 
 
 
 
 
Mad about Physics: Braintwisters, Paradoxes and Curiosities (2001)   
Christopher P. Jargodzki 
Franklin Potter 

  Amazon.com  
  BarnesandNoble.com  
 Errata   

 
  
  

  
 

 
Mad about Modern Physics: Braintwisters, Paradoxes and Curiosities (2005)   
Franklin Potter 
Christopher Jargodzki 

  Amazon.com  
  BarnesandNoble.com  
 Errata  
 
  
  

  

 


 
** Email corrections to and inquiries about either book to 
 Frank Potter  (drpotter@lycos.com)  **

 

 
 
		
	 
		
		 
		 
		 
			 
				  
				K-16 Science Gems for the Classroom  
				  
					
				  Physical Science 1   
					Measurement, Mechanics, Energy, Waves, Thermodynamics
					
				  Physical Science 2   
					Electromagnetism, Optics, Special Relativity, Quantum Mechanics, Atomic Physics, Nuclear Physics
					
				  Physical Science 3   
					Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Biochemistry, High Energy/Particle Physics, General Relativity
				 
					
					
				  Earth Science 1   
					Measurement, Earth in Space, Solar System, Astronomy
					
				  Earth Science 2   
					Atmosphere, Weather, Land/Geology, Oceans, Water Effects, Earth Resources
					
				 
					
				  Life Science 1   
					Measurement, Cell Biology, Heredity, Molecular Genetics, Evolution, Ecology
					
				  Life Science 2   
					Viruses, Bacteria, Plants, Animals, Human Anatomy
					
				 
					
				  Mathematics   
					Reasoning, Numbers, Algebra, Geometry, Functions, Probability, Number Theory  
					
				  Engineering   
					Measure, Aero, Chem, Civil, Control, Materials, Power, Ceramics, Computer
				
			
				
					  
			 
		  
		 
	 
 
		 
		 
		 
			 
				  
				Additional Class Resources  
			
				
				
				
				  
				
				 K-12 Science WebQuests
				  2003 - 1997 inclusive   
					-- Lesson plans designed by teachers in 1997 - 2003: about 90, using 'Net resources and maintained by
					Greg Sheppard of  Sheppard's Science Resources 
				 
				
				
				 Martindale's *The Reference Desk*  
				
				
				37,000+ reference links: 
				finance, countries,  
				airlines, autos,  
				recreation, fashion,  
				technology, engineering,  
				;science courses, tutorials,  
				databases, net cams, etc.
				 
				  Martindale's Health Science Guide  
				
				
				20,000+ medical links:
				nutrition, pharmacy, 
				dental, nursing, clinical, 
				public health, veterinary, 
				brain, cardiology,  
				pathology, oncology, 
				obstetrics, imaging, etc.
				 
				  Calculators On-Line Center  
				
				
				20,000 calculator links: 
				ALL topics, e.g., cosmetics, 
				mathematics, statistics, 
				chemistry, physics,  
				engineering, computer, etc.
				 
								
				   Great Science Discoveries of the 1990's 
					-- ExtraSolar Planets, Genome Mapping, Genetic Testing, Global Ecosystem, Top Quark, 
					New Materials, Universe Exploration
					
				 
				
				  Science, Technology, and Society (STS) 
					-- Special places for learning about resources on the 'Net. 
 
				 
				 
			 
		 
		

		 
		 
 		
		
 
 

 

 




 This resource is being developed by  Frank Potter  
(drpotter@lycos.com), Program Coordinator, with   
Jim Martindale , Consultant. 


  
 Please e-mail suggestions for and reviews of science classroom materials available 
 on Internet/ World Wide Web  to Dr. Frank Potter.

 
  Disclaimer statement   
 
This page's address is: http://www.sciencegems.com
 

 
 Frank Potter (drpotter@lycos.com)  
 

Copyright ? 1994-2009, All Rights Reserved, Frank Potter