Science Online 
 
  



 
  
  
  
  

  

  
 
 
          
           
        Teacher Log-in              Student Log-in       
  
           Home    Sample Content    Pricing and offers    How to buy    Contacts                 
     
     
             Innovative Science teaching online                Designed for Key Stages 3, 4 and 5, Science Online contains a wide range of resources to help you to teach and your students to learn. These include text resources, interactive activities, animations, spreadsheets, PowerPoint presentations and more. All of these resources are easily found using Science Online?s powerful search engine or through simple but effective navigation menus.  
   
 Science Online also fosters collaboration and the sharing of excellence across your school. The File-store feature allows the teaching team in your school to develop and add their own intellectual property for your site so that ideas and materials can easily be accessed and shared without effort.  
   
 In our Student study area you will find you can assign your own materials and the Science Online resources to individual students or groups facilitating personalised learning at every level.        
  
     
     
     
    
         Key Stage 3 science DVDS!       
           
  
          Get instant access to every video clip, animation and image you need for KS3 with the new Longman Science DVDs - which are easy to use on any DVD player, computer or interactive whiteboard with a DVD drive. 
   
  
   
 To find out more email  problemsolved@pearson.com  
   
 or call  
 Freephone  
 0800 389 0783           
  
      
     
    
         Manage, organise, assign        
           
  
          File-store              Choosing the right resources for your students is so important, so we?ve made the process easier for you.  
   
 In File-store you can save your favourite Science Online resources and manage them in your own folders. What?s more you can upload your own resources, weblinks or add talkboards to share with your department and assign to your students.  
   
 To familiarise you with used to using File-store and help you find what you need, we regularly commission renowned subject experts to post up folders of recommended content linked together by teaching objective or theme. Currently you?ll find we have selected three folders of materials on targeted subjects: Breathing and smoking, Sound and vision, and Separating mixtures. 
   
 But remember, the resources you store here don?t just have to come from Science Online ? they can come from everywhere!              Student study              Do any of your students need more help with a particular aspect of Science? If so, this is where you can gather suitable resources and assign them to any individual or group. As with File-store you can add your own content and weblinks to these folders. This facility makes personalised learning easy!                  
  
  
     
     
     
    
         Comprehensive resources       
           
  
            
   
                  Science Online is a dedicated site for Science teachers, providing a wealth of resources and activities designed to make your life as a teacher easier, but also stimulating both for you and your students. Resources include: text resources, interactive activities, animations, spreadsheets, PowerPoint presentations and more - and are structured to allow for effective differentiation.  
   
 The content is divided along familiar lines ? by Key Stage, by QCA Scheme of Work and by type of resource making it easy to identify resources to use in your lessons.  
   
  > See some examples            
  
      
     
    
         Content at your fingertips        
           
  
          Contents, Schemes and Search              New ways to search Science Online make it even easier to find the resources you need. Search by Key Stage or theme under Contents, or search by national statements or objectives under Schemes.  
   
 For a simple keyword or text search you can use Quick find at any point or extend this to include age range or resource type by visiting the advanced Search.  
   
 Whatever route you choose you should find what you are looking for in no more than two or three clicks!             
  
  
  
 
     
         
  
   
   Science Online is 
   no longer available  
   to new subscribers. 
   For more information  
   call Freephone 
   0800 389 0783 
                                             
  
               ? COPYRIGHT Pearson Education Limited and its licensors 2005. All rights reserved. 
   
           Powered by  Frog 2.0