Fred Bortz, Children's Science Writer 
   
  

  
   

      
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
       
     
    What's
        New?  |  Meet Dr. Fred!  |
       Books By Dr. Fred     School Visits    
       Ask Dr. Fred  |  Children's Science Book Discussion Area  |
 Dr. Fred's Links 
  
  Learn about Dr. Fred's Latest Book.   
      
 Read about Dr. Fred's trip to Hawai'i to observe the planets through a great telescope 
   Learn about Dr. Fred's trip to Mars!  --  See Dr. Fred's GREAT New Bowtie 
  LIBRARIANS: Download a sheet of "Dr. Fred" Bookmarks.   
 Read a profile of Dr. Fred at a widely read Live Journal Blog. 
  
 Scroll down for more links and Web Awards! 
 
 
  
Honored for Science Excellence by "Dr. Matrix."  
When recognizing Dr. Fred's Place, Dr. Matrix wrote:  
Sites receiving this award are distinguished by the quality of their content 
alone. A flashy Web site will not receive this award if its content lacks 
interest and integrity. A simple Web site will receive this award if it 
serves the interests of discovery, mental enrichment and thoughtful 
enjoyment. This award doesn't go to "cool" sites. It goes to the great sites. 
It's not a daily or weekly award, but an award based on presence, here and 
now. It is given in gratitude, with no other request but that you keep doing 
what you're doing.  
Thank you, Dr. Matrix!
 
 This site is on the list of Approved Science Education Sites by the American Association for the Advancement of Science at its Science NetLinks site. 
 Click here to read the review.   
 
Named "Cool Site of the Week" by a  Cool School . 
 
  Click here for  "Ask Dr. Fred" . 
 
 
  Send Dr. Fred e-mail 
  -- EXCEPT--
  For "Ask Dr. Fred" questions,  click here and follow the rules .
  Click here for a picture of Dr. Fred's grandchildren.  
 
 
  Find updates and hotlinks at the web pages for:  
 Beyond Jupiter: The Story of Planetary Astronomer Heidi Hammel , including Heidi's list of Frequently Asked Questions about Astronomy  
 
 Dr. Fred's Weather Watch  with its great list of Weather Links;   Collision Course! Cosmic Impacts and Life on Earth , with its latest news and great list about Near-Earth objects and links to other Cosmic Impact sites, and    Martian Fossils on Earth?  with an update page about the continuing research tug-of-war about the question of life on Mars 
 
 

 
 
 
  
  
  
  

  
  

 
 Science & Nature
 Children's 
 Teens
 Nonfiction
 Fiction
 Biographies
 Computers
 Health/Mind/Body
 History
 Parenting
 Professional & Technical
 Reference
 Sci-Fi & Fantasy
 

 
    
 
 

 
 
    
    
  
 
 
Thanks to  Sandra Friend  for initial website development. Dr. Fred Logo created by Sally Reynolds and Sandra Friend 
Artist, Susan Friend 
 Art and Dr. Fred logo may not be reproduced in any form for commercial or educational use without the written permission of its owner, Alfred B. Bortz. All text on this site copyright Alfred B. Bortz, all rights reserved.