Understanding Science  
 
 

                       Cold fusion: A case study for scientific behavior  Learn what happened when two chemists made a foray into physics, alternative energy sources, and the public eye ? but neglected to follow the guidelines for good scientific behavior.  Find out how science is affected by and overcomes such negligence.            The structure of DNA: Cooperation and competition  Knowing the structure of DNA has helped push biology into new realms.  Find out how the human side of science played out in this remarkable discovery.          A science toolkit  Get the tools you need to take a scientific approach to life.           	  
"In the long run, the greatest gift of science may be in teaching us, in ways no other human endeavor has been able, something about our cosmic context, about where, when and who we are."  ? Astronomer Carl Sagan, in The Demon-haunted World, 1996
                 Welcome!   Get to know us  or take our  site tour .      Understanding Science is growing.   Subscribe  to find out about updates.                            Teaching resources  ? find classroom activities, teaching tools, a K-16 conceptual framework, tips, and strategies for integrating the process of science into your teaching, and more.        Correcting misconceptions  ? clear up common misconceptions about the nature of science.        Science in action  ? explore case studies, profiles, and news about scientists and how they work.        Frequently asked questions  ? find answers to common questions about how science works and submit your own.       ... and much more coming soon, including an image library, advanced side trips, and new research profiles.               Home  |  About  |  Copyright  |  Credits and Collaborations  |  Contact  |  Subscribe         Understanding Science was developed by the University of California Museum of Paleontology in collaboration with its  Advisory Boards .         Funded by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. EAR-0624436. Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation (NSF).     Endorsed by:       American Institute of Biological Sciences        California Science Teachers Association        National Association of Biology Teachers           Encyclopedia of Life        Deep Earth Academy