Science in School | Science in School 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 


   
 

     

 
 
 


 
 


   
    
 
 
 

 
	 
    	  
     
     
    	  

   Menu - Upper Menu 

      Alerts  
  Subscribe  
  RSS  
  
 
 
         
         
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
    Browse articles           
     
  
	 Languages: 
     
       
   

    

                                                            
   
 


     


 
     
      Help translate  
 

 
	 Categories: 
     
       
    

 


        All    Activities    Cutting edge    Features    Projects    Reviews    Science topics    Scientist profiles    ...more  
      
      
       
 

 
	 Topics: 
     
       
    

   


   All    Astronomy    Biology    Chemistry    Earth science    Education    Physics    Primary    Science    ...more        
        
            
       
    

     

 
 
  
   
                 Science in School         
        
                        

 



            Last updated Tue, 2011-09-20 11:14 — rau
      
   
    
 
	 Issue 20 is now available  
   

   
     
         

             617910 reads 
 
		  
		  
		 
  Printer-friendly version  
  Send to friend  
  
       

          
			 


    
 

 
  
 
         
         
			 


    
    
  
  
       
       
     
             
   
                 Neutrons and antifreeze: research into Arctic fish 
   
 
             
   
                 More than meets the eye: the electromagnetic spectrum 
   
 
             
   
                 Healthy horrors: the benefits of parasites 
   
 
             
   
                 Fizzy fun: CO2 in primary school science 
   
 
             
   
                 Hunting for asteroids 
   
 
       
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
        
              More 
         
                  
   
   
  		 
        	 

   Highlighted articles 

    
    
  
  
       
      


    
  
   
                 Ginger beer: a traditional fermented low-alcohol drink 
   
  
   
                                       		  		 Because of its low alcohol content, ginger ‘beer’ is a popular drink with British children. Dean Madden from the National Centre for Biotechnology Education, University of Reading, UK, gives his recipe for introducing younger students to the principles of fermentation, food hygiene and the biochemistry of respiration.           	     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 The resourceful physics teacher 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Physics teacher Keith Gibbs shares some of his many demonstrations and experiments for the physics classroom. 
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Life savers in the sky: flying doctors 
   
  
   
                  
	     
          
		 
		 Anne Weaver, lead clinician for London’s Air Ambulance, tells Marie Mangan about her job: saving lives. 
		 
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Answers to comprehension questions 
   
  
   
                  For the questions, see  Shipwreck: science to the rescue!   
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 The CoRoT satellite: the search for Earth-like planets 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Malcolm Fridlund from the European Space Agency (ESA) describes the search for extra-solar planets and explains how they can help us to understand the origin of life on Earth. 
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 The ‘Radon school survey’: measuring radioactivity at home 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Marco Budinich and Massimo Vascotto introduce a school project to measure radon levels in your own home. 
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Research into the Sun’s atmosphere 
   
  
   
                                       		  		 Ever wondered what the solar wind means to us on Earth or what happens when the surface of the Sun erupts sporadically? Lucie Green from University College London's Mullard Space Science Laboratory, UK, describes some of the recent research into the Sun’s atmosphere. 		          	     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Teaching in the Ukraine: Halyna Yagenska 
   
  
   
                  
       
          
		 
		 Halyna Yagenska tells Sai Pathmanathan about teaching in the Ukraine. 
		 
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Alan Leshner: at the interface of science and society 
   
  
   
                  
       
          
		 
		 Dr Alan Leshner, Chief Executive Officer of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and Executive Publisher of the renowned Science magazine, tells Marlene Rau and Sonia Furtado about his varied career and shares his views on science education issues. 
	 
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Handstands and ties: a career in teaching 
   
  
   
                               		 John Watson, “the teacher who does handstands in class”, reminisces about what drew him to teach biology, shares memorable moments from his 38-year teaching career, and explains how scientists can help to inspire science teaching.  		     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 ESOF 2006: science close up and personal 
   
  
   
                               		 How do I become a star-chaser? How do we recognise particles that we don’t know? When will fusion power become available to mankind? Sabina Griffith from the  European Fusion Development Agreement  in Garching, Germany, describes the guided round-the-world trip through the science of the      
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 To sea with a blind scientist 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Scientific research is not a career that most people believe to be suitable for the blind, but such beliefs are changing. Biologist Geerat Vermeij explains that, whether you are blind or not, science is competitive, tedious and hard – and he loves it. 
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Design the cover for Science in School! 
   
  
   
                  Do you or your students enjoy painting and drawing as well as teaching or learning science? Would you like to see your artwork reproduced 30,000 times and distributed across Europe? The Science in School cover competition gives you and your students the opportunity to do just that.  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Epigenetics 
   
  
   
                                       		   		 We tend to think of our genetic information as being encoded in DNA – in our genes. Brona McVittie from  Epigenome NoE , UK, describes why this is only part of the story.  		     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Awards, rewards – and onwards! 
   
  
   
                                       		  		 At Science on Stage 2, the European Science Teaching Awards 2007 were presented for the 12 best projects. Eleanor Hayes, editor of  Science in School , describes how the jury made their difficult decisions.  		          	     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Science teachers take to the stage 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Science recognises no national borders – and neither does Science on Stage, the network for European science teachers. Eleanor Hayes attended the international festival. 
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 The LHC: a step closer to the Big Bang 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
				Part of the ATLAS detector 
				Image courtesy of CERN 
			 
				 
					On 10 September 2008 at 10:28 am, the world’s largest particle accelerator – the Large Hadron Collider – was switched on. But why? In the first of two articles, Rolf Landua from  CERN       
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Two hydrolytic enzymes and an epistemological–historical approach 
   
  
   
                               		 Why are enzymes so special? How do they differ from inorganic catalysts? Isabella Marini from the  University of Pisa , Italy, describes a classroom protocol to enable students to answer these questions for themselves. 		     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Spectrometry at school: hands-on experiments 
   
  
   
                  
	     
          
           
		 
		 Nata?a Gros, Tim Harrison, Irena ?trumbelj Drusany and Alma Kapun Dolinar introduce a selection of experiments with a simple spectrometer designed especially for schools – and give details of how to perform one of the activities.  
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Teaching on ice: an educational expedition to Antarctica 
   
  
   
                                       		  		  		 Are there days when you long to get right away from the classroom? How far would you be willing to go? Eleanor Hayes talks to Phil Avery, one of four teachers who are taking a break from school to journey to the Antarctic.  		          	     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 The International Space Station: a foothold in space 
   
  
   
                                       		  		 In the first of two articles, Shamim Hartevelt-Velani and Carl Walker from the  European Space Agency  take us on a trip to the International Space Station. 		          	     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 The LHC: a look inside 
   
  
   
                                       		  		  		 In the second of two articles, Rolf Landua from  CERN  takes us deep below the ground to visit the largest scientific endeavour on Earth – the Large Hadron Collider and its experiments.  		          	     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 The scientist of the future 
   
  
   
                           		 Susan Greenfield and Martin Westwell from the  Institute for the Future of the Mind  consider the needs of the future scientist.      
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Inspirational lessons in the science class 
   
  
   
                                       		  		  		 Naheed Alizadeh from Imperial College, London, UK, explains how and why the  INSPIRE  project is trying to make inspirational science lessons, clubs, and master classes regular features of the state school timetable in the UK.  		          	     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Time travel: science fact or science fiction? 
   
  
   
                  
       
          
		 
		 Do you believe that time travel has no place in a serious science lesson? Jim Al-Khalili from the  University of Surrey , UK, disagrees. He shows how the topic of time travel introduces some of the ideas behind Einstein’s theories of relativity.  
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 The chocolate challenge 
   
  
   
                      		   		 John Schollar from the  National Centre for Biotechnology Education  at the University of Reading, UK, finds an excuse for eating one of his favourite foods - chocolate. 		     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 School experiments at the nanoscale 
   
  
   
                  
	 
		 
			 
				 
			 
				 
					Eleanor Hayes highlights some education resources about the nanoscale and nanotechnology. 
			 
		 
	 
  
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Putting the fizz into physics! 
   
  
   
                  
       
          
		 
		 
		 Lucy Attwood from  Oxford Danfysik , UK, explains the mysterious appeal of champagne. 
 		  
       
	    
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 The exhibition ship MS Einstein: a floating source of scientific knowledge 
   
  
   
                             		
             		 Imagine a barge carrying not coal or other heavy cargo, but something much more precious – inspiration! Beate Langholf from  Wissenschaft im Dialog , Germany, describes a science exhibition that travels the rivers of Germany with a different     
   

 
 
  
  
   
                 Bring the fascination of the science centre into the classroom 
   
  
   
                                       		  		 Amito Haarhuis from the Science Center NEMO in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, describes a project that challenges pupils aged 11-12 to design and create their own exhibits.           	     
   

 
 
 
 
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 

   Readers' feedback 

    
    
  
  
       
       
     
             
   
                1 week 6 days ago
   
  
   
                 Den Klimawandel im Klassenzimmer simulieren 
   
  
   
                Den Klimawandel im Klassenzimmer simulieren
   
 
             
   
                1 week 6 days ago
   
  
   
                 Climate change modelling 
   
  
   
                Climate change modelling in the classroom
   
 
             
   
                3 weeks 15 hours ago
   
  
   
                 Related teaching activity: solar cells in drinking straws 
   
  
   
                Looking to the heavens: climate change experiments
   
 
       
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 

   Forum 

    
    
  
  
       
       
     
             
   
                 how to attract a budget Abercrombie & fitch Canada Goose wintertime coats 
   
  
   
                16 min ago
   
 
             
   
                 how to attract a budget Abercrombie & fitch Canada Goose wintertime coats 
   
  
   
                18 min 18 sec ago
   
 
             
   
                 Why can't we remember things as a baby 
   
  
   
                12 weeks 2 days ago
   
 
             
   
                 How did dinosaurs communicate? 
   
  
   
                17 weeks 6 days ago
   
 
       
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 


   
    
 
 

                         
         
             

   Photo of the day 

    
 
  
From:  The drama of science 
  
 
 

   Searching for primary-school teachers 

    
	Seeking European primary-school teachers! If you would like to help us to decide which articles to publish, see  here  for more information and then  email us . If you have colleagues who may be interested, please let them know. 
 
 
 

   Science in the media 

    
	Mapping the deadly mosquito 
	The European Space Agency (ESA) is helping to take the bite out of mosquitoes and their deadly diseases by tracking their distribution and habitat via observation satellites, satnav, and mobile communications. See  the ESA website . 
 
	When particles collide 
	CERN Director General Rolf-Dieter Heuer describes how the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the world's largest particle accelerator, is helping to bring science back to the masses. See the  interview . 
 
	Cat litter to become an edible product? 
	The structure of different sepiolites has been analysed at ESRF, using X-ray and electron diffraction. Used in cat litter, sepiolites could also bind food products and stabilise drugs. See the  press release . 
 
 
 

   Important dates 

    
	  The next issue of Science in School, Issue 21, will be published in December. 
	 
	The next deadlines for submitting articles are: 
 
	 
		10 October 2011 (Issue 22) 
	 
		10 January 2012 (Issue 23) 
 
 
 
         
          
   
  
 

     
    
 


     
       Support the print journal 
       
       
       
       
      
       
       Learn more 
     

      
    

       
         

   Menu - My Account 

      Log in  
  Register (free)  
  
 
       


       
             


    Print subscription   
 
 

   Science in School email alert 

    
  
  Email alert: * 
  
 
 
   Subscribe  Unsubscribe  
 
 
 
 

  
  Previous alerts   
    
 
 


    RSS feeds  
 
       
      


       
           

   Menu - Content 

      Current issue  
  Archive  
  Events calendar  
  Forum  
  Links  
  
 
       

      
    

       
           

   Menu - Information 

      About  
  Contact  
  For teachers  
  For scientists  
  For museums  
  For events  
  For projects  
  
 
       
      
        
           

   Menu - Guidelines for 

      Authors  
  Referees  
  Book reviewers  
  Translators  
  Advertisers  
  
 
       
      
      

               
           


    

    
 
 
 


   
    

 
 
 


     
   
 
         
      
      
               
      
        
 
    
 



     
 
 
 

   Menu - Footer 

      About  
  Contact  
  Copyright  
  Disclaimer  
  Help  
  Imprint  
  Safety note