Chance to Change - Gambling Recovery 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 

 
     
        

         
  
    About Chance to Change     Chance to Change Materials     Our Experts     About Church Initiative     Contact Us  
 

        
     

     
        
         Chance to Change - Gambling Recovery 

         Imagine the implications for your community and for your church. Envision what will happen as more and more people become ensnared by gambling addictions. 

 Are you ready to do battle with this new plague that reaches into virtually every neighborhood? How will you respond when people turn to your church for help? 

 Chance to Change is a powerful set of tools to help you minister to people addicted to gambling. This innovative resource equips your church to offer weekly lay-led gambling addiction support groups. 

 The strategy 

 Chance to Change is all new—designed from the ground up, on a Christ-based, biblical foundation. Chance to Change takes people beyond recovery by embracing the biblical model of “putting off” and “putting on” found in Ephesians 4:21–24. 

 Learn more about the Put Off, Put On model of gambling recovery ministry.  Receive a FREE chapter  from our forthcoming book describing this powerful ministry strategy. 

 The materials 

 Chance to Change is a workbook-based video and support group curriculum. It culminates two and one-half years of research, writing and production and features 40 Christian counselors and experts who specialize in helping people overcome gambling addictions. 

 Of particular interest are the testimonies from 30 former gamblers who found victory through Jesus Christ. Together they proclaim that the gospel of Jesus Christ is greater than any addiction! 

 The opportunity 

 Ministry during a life crisis is one of the best opportunities to reach adults in our culture with the hope of Christ. This “point of pain” ministry strategy is field-proven by churches using Church Initiative’s DivorceCare and GriefShare programs, which have been placed in nearly 12,000 churches worldwide. 


         
          © 2011  Church Initiative . All rights reserved. |  Privacy Policy 
         
     

     
        

         Several ways to order: 
         
              Order Online  (Major Credit Card Required) 
             Call 1-800-395-5755 
              Download Order Form  (requires  Acrobat Reader )