Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
 
  Skip to section navigation  
  Skip to content 
  
 
   
    Science Education 
     
        Science Education  
       ORISE manages scholarship, fellowship, internship and research participation programs that support DOE's workforce development mission to ensure availability of future scientists and engineers. 
     
   
    Emergency Preparedness 
     
       
          National Security and Emergency Management  
 ORISE prepares DOE and other government agencies by managing and conducting programs, studies, research, exercises and training related to national security and emergency preparedness.
 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
         ORISE provides expertise in the medical management of radiation incidents through the operation of the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site
(REAC/TS), a dedicated DOE facility located in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
       
     
   
    Health 
     
       
          Worker Health Studies  
         ORISE provides DOE and the scientific community with important information regarding the long-term health outcomes affecting current and former energy workers. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE collaborates with federal, state and local agencies to provide health communication and training solutions that enhance the well-being of the public and the nation’s workers. 
       
     
   
    Research 
     
       
          Scientific Peer Review  
         ORISE manages a credible and customizable peer review process that is helping DOE and other government agencies make informed decisions about the quality of the science they pursue. 
       
       
          University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
         The University Radioactive Ion Beam (UNIRIB) consortium consists of eight member universities that partner to perform basic nuclear physics research using the fast-growing technique of radioactive ion beams. 
       
       
          Scientific Research Opportunities  
         ORISE manages research participation programs at the undergraduate, graduate, post-graduate and faculty levels at DOE and other government facilities across the United States. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform research focused on air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate. 
       
     
   
    Environment 
     
       
          Environmental Assessments and Health Physics  
         ORISE instills confidence in environmental cleanup through survey assessments, health physics evaluations and hands-on, laboratory-based training in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Climate and Atmospheric Research  
         Through the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, ORISE works closely with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform air quality, contaminant dispersion and climate research. 
       
     
   
    Training 
     
       
          Health Physics  
         Through Oak Ridge Associated Universities, ORISE's managing contractor, health physics and radiation safety training courses are offered for participants performing work in the radiation sciences. 
       
       
          Radiation Emergency Medicine  
         Continuing education courses taught through the Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site (REAC/TS) at ORISE focus on radiation emergency medicine and the medical management of radiation incidents. 
       
       
          Emergency Preparedness  
         ORISE emergency planners train government agencies on how to build effective response and preparedness plans, as well as teach best practices to improve communication among emergency response teams. 
       
       
          Health Communication and Training  
         ORISE develops training and education programs designed to address public health topics. Training is delivered via e-learning, multimedia applications and traditional classroom instruction. 
       
     
   
 
  

 

 
   
     
        Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education  
       
	  Search 
      
     
	 
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
        
     
    
     
       
         
            About ORISE  
            Safety  
            Careers  
            Working with Us  
            Media Center  
            Contact Us  
            Site Map  
         
         
            Twitter  
            Facebook  
            YouTube  
            RSS  
            Flickr  
         
          
       
      
       
         Mission & Vision 
         Quick Links 
          
       
      
       
         
            Strengthening our nation’s research and development enterprise through education and research participation programs  
         
         
            Protecting workers, the public and the environment through research, outreach and verification activities  
         
         
            Ensuring the readiness of our nation to respond to terrorist incidents and other emergencies  
         
         
            Internships, Scholarships and Fellowships  
            ORISE Facilities  
            Beryllium Exposure Studies and Testing  
            Visiting ORISE  
            Calendar of Events  
         
          
       
      
     
    
     
       
         The Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE)  is a U.S. Department of Energy institute focusing on scientific  initiatives to research health risks from occupational hazards, assess  environmental cleanup, respond to radiation medical emergencies,  support national security and emergency preparedness, and educate the  next generation of scientists. 
         
           
              Top Story  
              News Releases  
              Recent Publications  
              Events  
           
          
           
           Nov. 7, 2011 -  DOE Secretary Chu honors ORAU employees for Japan crisis response  
           Sixteen ORAU employees received U.S. Department of Energy Secretarial Honor Awards, presented by Energy Secretary Steven Chu, for their work supporting the agency in responding to the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear reactor crisis in Japan.  
 Nov. 2, 2011 -  ORISE report shows graduation, enrollment rates for nuclear engineering  candidates are still at highest ranges reported since 1980s  
           After a one-year decline, the number of graduate and undergraduate nuclear engineering degrees earned in the United States bounced back in 2010. A recent report from the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education shows enrollments of both undergraduate and graduate nuclear engineering students are still in the highest ranges reported since the early 1980s. 
           Aug. 12, 2011 -  ORISE Beryllium Laboratory accredited by College of American Pathologists   
           The ORISE Beryllium Lab congratulated for its excellence in providing services during recent onsite inspection by Accreditation Committee of College of American Pathologists. The inspection results in  accreditation for the second time for the lab. 
           
           
             
               
                 
                   Date 
                   Headline 
                 
               
               
 				  
 				    11/07/2011 
 				     DOE Secretary Chu honors ORAU employees for Japan crisis response  
			     
 				  
 				    11/02/2011 
 				     ORISE report shows graduation, enrollment rates for nuclear engineering  candidates are still at highest ranges reported since 1980s  
			     
 				  
 				    08/31/2011 
 				     MEDIA ADVISORY: REAC/TS International Symposium to include sessions on the Fukushima crisis  
			     
 				  
 				    08/12/2011 
 				     ORISE Beryllium Laboratory accredited by College of American Pathologists  
			     
 				  
 				    07/14/2011 
 				     ORAU, ORNL partnered to host college and university career center employees  
			     
 				  
               06/27/2011 
                MEDIA ADVISORY: REAC/TS hosts 5th International Symposium on the Medical Basis for Radiation Accident Preparedness  
             
                 
 				   12/06/2010 
 				    New  Easy-to-Use Medical Field Guide for Radiation Emergencies Published by REAC/TS at ORISE  
			     
 				 
              	   10/20/2010 
              	    ORAU–managed ORISE Again Recognized as DOE "Legacy of Stars" Site for Outstanding Safety and Health Performance  
            	 
              
               
             
           
           
             
                Nuclear Engineering Enrollments and Degrees Survey, 2010 Data  
                2010 ORAU/ORISE Bibliography  
                Rapid Internal and External Dose Magnitude Estimation  
                The Medical Aspects of Radiation Incidents  
                Health Physics Enrollments and Degrees Survey, 2010 Data  
                Stay  Rates of Foreign Doctorate Recipients from U.S. Universities, 2007   
                Best Practices in Peer Review Assure Quality, Value, Objectivity  
             
           
           
             
             
               
                 
                   Date 
                   Event 
                 
                 
                   11/30/2011 
                   5th Annual National Conference on Health Disparities 
                    Nov. 30 - Dec. 3, 2011 
                 
                 
                   12/06/2011 
                    Colorado ENERGY STAR  Summit 
                   Dec. 6-7, 2011 
                 
                 
                   12/13/2011 
                    National Wx  Training Conference 
                   Dec. 13-15, 2011 
                 
                 
                   01/23/2012 
                    Health Physics in Radiation Emergencies  
                    Jan. 23-27, 2012 
                 
                 
                   01/31/2012 
                    Radiation Emergency Medicine  
                    Jan. 31-Feb. 3, 2012 
                 
                 
                   02/08/2012 
                    New  York ENERGY STAR for Homes Conference   
                    Feb. 8-9, 2012 
                 
               
               
               
             
           
         
        
         
 Current Career Opportunities   
 
 
   
     Ref. No. 
     Job Title 
     Location 
   
 
 
   
     11-114 
      Laboratory Technician 2  
 Oak Ridge, TN 
   
   
     11-078 
      Sec Mgr Technology Systems  
 Oak Ridge, TN 
   
   
     11-079 
      Sec Mgr Technology Systems  
 Oak Ridge, TN 
   
   
     11-110 
      Maintenance Mechanic 4  
 Oak Ridge, TN 
   
   
     11-109 
      Operations Planner Senior  
 Albuquerque, NM 
   
   
     11-106 
      Forensic Specialist 2-Trace  
 Quantico, VA 
   
   
     11-102 
      Web Applications Developer 2  
 Oak Ridge, TN 
   
   
     11-104 
      Forensic Specialist 2-Chemist  
 Quantico, VA 
   
   
     11-100 
      Forensic Examiner 2 - Trace  
 Quantico, VA 
   
   
     11-099 
      Forensic Examiner 1  
 Quantico, VA 
   
 
 

 
       
      
       
           Deepwater Horizon and Nuclear and Radiological Incidents: Common Challenges and Solutions  
       New ORISE white paper examines the 2010 Deepwater Horizon response and identifies outcomes that can be applied in planning for a radiological or nuclear emergency.  
         
        
            
          WATCH: World Class Science. Big Ideas. (2:07)  
         Research participants placed at Oak Ridge National  Laboratory through science education programs administered by ORISE share how access to world-class research facilities and staff has  catapulted their careers in science and technology. 

        
         
          Download the ORISE white paper The Value of Independence  to learn how  ORISE stands uniquely prepared to help radiological cleanup contractors comply with Department of Energy Order 458.1, requiring independent verification of all DOE cleanup projects.  
 
      
        
     
    
   
  
 

 
   
 
   
      Science Education  
      National Security & Emergency Management  
      Radiation Emergency Assistance Center/Training Site  
      Worker Health Studies  
      Health Communication & Training  
      Scientific Peer Review  
      University Radioactive Ion Beam Consortium  
      Environmental Assessments & Health Physics  
      Climate & Atmospheric Research  
      Training: Health Physics  
      Training: Radiation Emergency Medicine  
      Training: Emergency Preparedness  
      Training: Health Communication  
   
   

   
      U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
   
     ORISE is managed for the U.S. Department of Energy 
      by  Oak Ridge Associated Universities  
       Privacy/Security Statement  |  Contract Acknowledgement  
   
  
   
      Office of Science, U.S. Department of Energy  
   
  
    
 

  
 

  
  
  
  
  
 
 This site may not function as intended without JavaScript. Please  contact us  if you need assistance using this site.