Oregon Council on Problem Gambling 

	 	
	  

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 


					 
  
  
  
 
 
 


 

  
  
  

	
	   
	
 
 


 
 

	
	 
		    
		 
			  Oregon Council on Problem Gambling  
			 An affiliate of the National Council on Problem Gambling 
		 
		
		    

	 

	 
		  
		  Home  
		  About the Council  
  Services  
  Studies  
  Contact Us  
		  
	 
	
		


	
	
	 

	
		

			 



				 
					 
						  The Oregon Council on Problem Gambling  
						 April 21st, 2009  Posted in  
					 


					 
						 Apr, 21 2009 
						 Comments Off 
					 
				 



				
				 
					 The Oregon Council on Problem Gambling (OCPG) is a private, not-for-profit organization affiliated with the National Council on Problem Gambling. The Council’s mission is to support effective, efficient, and sustainable treatment and prevention of problem gambling in Oregon. 
 The OCPG currently orchestrates the majority of the problem gambling workforce development efforts in the State of Oregon through a contract with the Oregon Department of Human Services.  In addition to workforce development efforts the OCPG, an organization neither for nor opposed to legalize gambling, is dedicated to: 
 
 Providing objective third party opinion on gambling related policy 
 Advocating for the needs of problem gamblers and their families 
 Raising awareness of problem gambling treatment availability and effectiveness 
 Raising awareness of problem gambling 
 Supporting state efforts that address problem gambling 
 Ensuring the accountability of state resources use for the prevention and treatment of problem gamblin 
 Providing recognition within the field 
 Supporting the prevention of problem gambling 
 Proposing, conducting, and publishing research to fill voids in the knowledge base 
 
 Conferences 
 Vital to the OCPG operation and success is the emphasis it places on partnerships and collaborative relationships. 
									  

				
				 
					
				 


			  

			

 

			
		  

	 



				 
			  
			  
		 

		
	 


 








 
	
	 
			 
			 
			 
			 
			 
			 
		 











		 
			    
	  Search for: 
	 
	 
	 
	       For immediate help call: 			  1-877- MyLimit 

 (1-877-695-4648) 

 for Oregon Residents only  
		      Useful Links 
	 
  National Council on Problem Gambling  
  National Problem Gambling Awareness Week  
  Oregon Problem Gambling Helpline  

	 
  
    Translator 
                                                   
    	

 

  Buy Cheap  cheap benicar  Now WorldWide Shipping. Guaranteed Shipping. 
 Buy Cheap  viagra and heart disease  Online Best Drugstore. Internet Prices For  viagra and heart disease ! 
 Buy Cheapest  cialis cream  Online No Prescription Needed. Best Internet. 
 Buy Cheapest  amoxicillin without a prescription  Online Free Viagra Pills! Guaranteed Shipping. 
 Buy Cheapest  line viagra  Now Discount Pharmacy Online. Best Prices. 
 Buy Cheapest  fertility  Now Free Viagra Pills! WorldWide Shipping. 
 Buy Cheapest  fluoxetine sarafem  Now Best Drugstore. Cheap Online Pharmacy. 
  clomid medicine  Online Without Prescription Guaranteed Shipping. Low Prices. 
 Buy Cheapest  dosage nexium  Online Pharmacy Store. Guaranteed Shipping. 
 Buy Cheap  fluconazole  Online Cheap Prescription Drugs. Best Online. 
 Buy Cheapest  cialis europe  Online Best Prices. Buy Medications Online. 
 Buy Cheapest  zoloft birth defects  Now Cheap Pharmacy Online. WorldWide Shipping. 
 Buy Cheap  antibiotics erythromycin  Online Special Prices For  antibiotics erythromycin ! Best Prices. 
 Buy Cheap  meclizine vertigo  Now No Prescription Needed. Free Viagra Pills! 
 Buying Cheap  pfizer viagra otc . Offshore Rx, Best Prices. Online Medical Shop. 
 Buy Cheap  cheap atenolol  Online Best Prices. Special Prices For  cheap atenolol ! 
 Buy Cheap  zoloft side effects  Online Cheap Pharmacy Online. Best Internet. 
 Buy Cheap  buy viagra soft  Now Cheap Online Pharmacy. Guaranteed Shipping. 
 Buy Cheap  generic femara  Online 24/Online Pharmacy. Best Drugstore. 
 Buy Cheap  use viagra  Now Buy Medications Online. Top Online Pharmacy. 
 Buying Cheap  xenical weight loss . Mexican Rx, Good Prices. 24/Online Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheap  dosage valtrex  Now WorldWide Shipping. Cheap Prescription Drugs. 
 Buy Cheap  little blue pill  Online Top Online Pharmacy. Pharmacy Store. 
 Buy Cheapest  effexor generic  Now Free Viagra Pills! WorldWide Shipping. 
 Buy Cheapest  trazodone dosage  Online Low Prices. Discount Online Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheapest  sildenafil online  Now Online Medical Shop. Cheap Online Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheapest  azithromycin 250 mg  Online WorldWide Shipping. Online Medical Shop. 
 Buy  pain medication  Without Prescription Doctor. Best Internet. Best Prices. 
 Buy Cheap  celebrex recall  Now Cheap Prescription Drugs. Guaranteed Shipping. 
 Buying Cheap  citalopram hydrobromide . Worldwide Rx, Best Prices. WorldWide Shipping. 
 Buy Cheap  cheap viagra discount  Online Online Medical Shop. WorldWide Shipping. 
 Buy Cheap  cheap buspar  Online 24/Internet)(safe Pharmacy. Low Prices. 
 Buy Cheap  side effects norvasc  Online Low Prices. Discount Pharmacy Online. 
 Buy Cheap  viagra  Online Order Cheap Meds Without Rx. Best Online. 
 Buy  omeprazole 20 mg  Without Prescription Doctor. Best Internet. Low Prices. 
 Buy Cheapest  viagra from usa  Now Order Cheap Meds Without Rx. Best Online. 
 Buy Cheapest  doxycycline 100 mg  Now Best Drugstore. 24/Online Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheapest  viagra natural  Now Free Viagra Pills! No Prescription Needed. 
 Buy Cheapest  meclizine drug  Now Free Viagra Pills! Cheap Online Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheapest  drug hydroxyzine  Now Guaranteed Shipping. Best Drugstore. 
 Buy Cheapest  unisom ingredients  Now Drugs, Health And Beauty. Best Internet. 
 Buy  us viagra  Without Prescription Doctor. Best Online. Low Prices. 
 Buy Cheap  glucophage pcos  Online Guaranteed Shipping. Cheap Online Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheapest  buy vigrx  Online Best Internet. Cheap Pharmacy Online. 
 Buy Cheap  what is buspar  Online The Largest Internet Pharmacy. Low Prices. 
 Buy Cheapest  levaquin 750 mg  Now Best Drugstore. Online Prices For  levaquin 750 mg ! 
 Buy Cheap  voltaren cream  Online Free Viagra Pills! WorldWide Shipping. 
 Buy Cheap  generic vardenafil  Now WorldWide Shipping. 24/Online Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheapest  insomnia prescription drugs  Online Buy Medications Online. Best Online. 
 Buy Cheap  cheap no prescription viagra  Online Discount Online Pharmacy. Best Prices. 
 Buy Cheap  online consultation viagra  Online Drugs, Health And Beauty. Pharmacy Store. 
 Buy Cheapest  buy viagra sale  Online Pharmacy Store. Guaranteed Shipping. 
 Buy Cheap  hoodia gordonii  Now Best Prices. No Prescription Needed For Drugs. 
 Buy Cheapest  femara drug  Now Pharmacy Store. Cheap Prescription Drugs. 
 Buy Cheapest  pills for acne  Now Pharmacy At The Best Price! Best Drugstore. 
 Buy Cheapest  buy generic cialis  Now Guaranteed Shipping. Cheap Online Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheap  male enhancement review  Now Discount Online Pharmacy. Online Medical Shop. 
 Buy Cheap  international online pharmacy  Online Low Prices. Special Prices For  international online pharmacy ! 
 Buy Cheapest  cheap zetia  Now Pharmacy Store. Pharmacy At The Best Price! 
 Buy Cheap  doxycycline 100 mg  Online Top Online Pharmacy Supplier. Best Prices. 
 Buy Cheap  counter over viagra  Online Pharmacy Store. Online Prices For  counter over viagra ! 
 Buy Cheap  citalopram  Now 100% Satisfaction Guaranteed. Best Internet. 
 Buy Cheap  what is fluoxetine  Online Pharmacy Store. Drugs, Health And Beauty. 
 Buy Cheap  bupropion sr  Now Best Online. Cheap Meds Without Prescription. 
 Buy Cheap  cheapest meds  Online Prescription Drugs And Generic Medications. 
 Buy Cheap  viagra generico impotencia  Online Free Viagra Pills! Buy Medications Online. 
 Get  donepezil  Without Prescription Consultation. 24/Online Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheap  prevacid  Now Best Drugstore. Discount Pharmacy Online. 
 Buy Cheap  hydroxyzine atarax  Now The Largest Internet Pharmacy. Best Online. 
 Buy Cheap  us based viagra  Online Low Prices. 100% Satisfaction Guaranteed. 
 Buy Cheap  viagra ads  Online Best Online. Discount Online Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheap  clonidine withdrawal  Now Guaranteed Shipping. Free Viagra Pills! 
 Buy  trazodone sleep  Online Without Prescription. Best Prices. Best Internet. 
 Buy Cheap  viagra sales  Now Free Viagra Pills! No Prescription Needed. 
 Buy Cheap  impotence drugs  Now All Medications Are Certificated! Low Prices. 
 Buy Cheapest  viagra overnight  Now 100% Satisfaction Guaranteed. Low Prices. 
 Buying Cheap  atenolol 50 mg . Mexican Pharmacy, Best Prices. Best Drugstore. 
 Buy Cheapest  amoxicillin clavulan  Now Pharmacy Store. 24/Online Pharmacy. 
 Buying Cheap  generic vardenafil . Mexican Pharmacy, Best Prices. Best Drugstore. 
 Buy Cheap  lipitor 20 mg  Now Best Drugstore. Internet Prices For  lipitor 20 mg ! 
 Buy Cheap  prescription drugs  Now Cheap Online Pharmacy. Online Medical Shop. 
 Buy Cheap  viagra buy online  Now Guaranteed Shipping. Cheap Pharmacy Online. 
 Buy Cheap  anastrozole arimidex  Online Best Online. No Prescription Needed. 
  cheap online cialis  Online Without Prescription Low Prices. Best Internet. 
 Buy Cheapest  sexual dysfunction  Online Best Internet. Top Online Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheap  generic xenical  Online Best Internet. Cheap Online Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheapest  viagra uk  Online Discount Drugs At Best Online Drugstore. 
 Buy Cheapest  rite aid pharmacy  Online Best Internet. Cheap Prescription Drugs. 
 Buy Cheapest  discount viagra europe  Now Best Online. Drugs, Health And Beauty. 
 Buy Cheap  rimonabant sale  Online Low Prices. The Largest Internet Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheap  prilosec  Now Internet Prices For  prilosec ! Best Drugstore. 
 Buy Cheap  erythromycin topical  Now Pharmacy Store. Cheap Prescription Drugs. 
 Buy Cheapest  generic viagra pill  Now Best Prices. The Largest Internet Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheapest  bupropion 150 mg  Now Best Online. The Largest Internet Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheap  vpxl pill  Online Free Viagra Pills! Top Online Pharmacy. 
 Buy Cheap  cheap brand cialis  Online Best Prices. Special Prices For  cheap brand cialis ! 
 Buy Cheap  cheap proscar  Online No Prescription Needed. Best Internet. 
 Buy Cheap  paroxetine hcl  Online Best Prices. Drugs, Health And Beauty. 
 Buy Cheapest  antibiotics gonorrhea  Now Cheap Online Pharmacy. Online Medical Shop. 
 Buy Cheapest  celebrex generic  Now Internet Prices For  celebrex generic ! Low Prices. 
   
  



	 


		 The Oregon Council on Problem Gambling is sponsored by:    © 2011 Oregon Council on Problem Gambling 
		 proSlate Theme by  Pro WP Themes