Forman Consulting | Problem Gambling and Addiction Prevention | 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
  
 
 
 
   
     
	   
	        
	     
	          
	     
	        
	     
	          
	     
	          
	     
	          
	     
	          
	     
	          
	     
	          
	     
	          
	   
	  
   
   
     
	   
	     
	          
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	   
	  
   
   
     
	   
	     
	        
	     
	   
	  
   
   
     
         
	     
	     
	        
	     
	     
	   
	  
   
   
     
   
   
     
         
	        
	        
             
		   
		     
		   
		   
		            
		   
		 
           
	        
	        
             
                
                  
                  
                  
               
                
                  
                 
                     
                     
                        
                           Forman Consulting is a private company dedicated to enhancing the overall mental health of individuals at high schools, colleges and at the workplace by reducing the harm associated with problem gambling and other addictive behaviors. 
                                                       Research studies have shown that problem gambling or compulsive (pathological) gambling is a serious form of addiction affecting more than 5.5% of the general population. Forman Consulting has developed a series of presentations on responsible gambling and problem gambling and associated addictive behavior. Geared toward professionals, these presentations help school and workplace administrators identify and manage gambling problems that may arise among students or employees. In addition to incurring significant debt, problem gamblers or compulsive gamblers typically display a lack of interest in school or work, and develop relational, emotional and legal problems.  
                            Therefore, it is essential that problem-gambling prevention 
                            be incorporated into school and workplace policy. 
                                                       Founded in 2003, Forman Consulting utilizes various prevention strategies, including presentations, trainings, consultations, and policy development. 
                           Corporate Training: 
                            To 
                              learn more about our services,  click 
                              here . 
                            To 
                              inquire about on-site presentations and trainings, 
                             click 
                            here .
                           Help for Problem Gambling: 
                            For 
                            help for those who have been impacted by someone else’s 
                            gambling,  click 
                            here . 
                            To 
                            learn more about problem gambling,  click 
                            here . 
                            For 
                            private consultations  click 
                          here . 
						     
                            
      

                           
                            
                             
                            
                                



					     
                       
                     
                   
                        
                  
               
               
	        
	        
                
                  
               
                
                    
                     
				    
                 
               
              
	   
	  
   
   
     
	   
	     
	     
	     
	   
	  
   
   
     
	   
	        
	     
	        
	        Profile  
            |  Problem 
            Gambling  |  Services  
            |  Resources  
            |  Calendar 
            /Events  |  Research  
            |  Contact  
            Copyright © 2007  Forman 
            Consulting.  All Rights Reserved.      
             Legal 
            Information  |  Privacy 
            Statement