Science Facts & Trivia - Sciensational.com 
		 
		

 

 
  
  


 
 

 

 
 
                  


   

 
   
     
     
     
     
     
   
 
  

 


 








		   



        
         
             Sciensational.com 
              Science facts and  
              trivia for everyone! 
          
         
         

	        
     
         
          
          
         
	   
        
         
       
       
          
              Astronomy  
            Mathematics  
            Physics  
            Chemistry  
            Biology  
            Blog  

            
         
                     
         
      
   
   
      
       
         

 
   
     
    
 
       
                 
        	   
				  
                 
             
    

         
			  
         

    
    
    

 

Animals... plants... stars... planets... numbers... chemicals... metals! The biggest... the smallest... the fastest... the highest... the lowest...! Not just science facts, Sciensational Facts!

     
    
     
 
    
 

    Submit     

    Write  
       

    Find  
       

    Store  
       

    Books  
       

    Screen  
       

    Fun  
       

    Sites  
       

    About  
       

    

    

    

   Sciensible       

 
 
  
 
       

     

  
 
 

 

         


 










 














 
 

 
 



 

 
   
     
    
    
  
 	  
  

	 Welcome Sciensational Visitor! 



    
 Random Science facts of the day: 
 28 November 2011 
	
 
	 Random biology fact  
		 From the age of thirty, humans gradually begin to shrink in size.		 
			 
			 more amazing biology facts  ?			 	
  
 


 
	 Random chemistry fact  
		 Chalk is made of trillions of microscopic skeleton fossils of plankton (a tiny sea creature.)		 
			 
			 More amazing chemistry facts   ?				 	
            
 


 
 
	 Random astronomy fact  
		 The pressure at the centre of the Earth is 27,000 tons per square inch.		 
			 
			 More amazing astronomy facts  ?			 	
  
 


 
	 Random maths fact  
		 The digits to the right of the Pi's (3.141...) decimal point can keep going forever, and there is no pattern to these digits at all.		 
			 
			 More amazing maths facts   ?				 	
  
 


 
	 Random physics fact  
		 A car travelling at 80 km/h uses half its fuel to overcome wind resistance.		 
			 
			 More amazing physics facts  ?			 	
  
 


       
     
    
    
 
  
   
  
    
    

 

 Not just science facts, Sciensational Facts! 


		
		        
         Latest on our Blog 
		
			  Warm and Sunny Facts  
			  The Sun is our nearest star in the universe. Nearest, however is a very relative term because the Su...  
			
			  Picking your brain facts  
			  Where would we be without our brains, eh?  Let's take a quick look at this wonderful organ.

Thanks ...  
			
			  100% Pure Honey Facts!  
			  Honey is one of the oldest food sources we know. This fascinating fluid is created by honey bees fro...  
			
			  Some Diamond Facts are Forever!  
			  Diamonds are really the most fascinating gemstones in the world.  They have adorned the crowns of ki...  
			
			  Some Prime Quality Facts!  
			  Time for some prime facts roundup, or prime numbers round up to be arithmetically exact. Take the fo...  
			
			  Over the Moon facts  
			  The moon is our nearest universal neighbour.  Some say the Moon does not deserve to be called just a...  
					 
        
        
        
        
		



 


  


 


      
   
   
     

 
 
 
		
		 
         Activities on Sciensational.com 
		 

		  Write in our Guestbook  and see what sciensational friends are saying from all over the world!         

		 Recommend this to your friends on Facebook, they'll love you for it! 

		  Submit  a sciensational fact you have - we'll publish it with your name
         

		  
 Bookmark and share  
   

		 with everyone your Sciensational experience! 
          
         
		 
		 
		        

 
 
 Thank you for visiting Sciensational.com!   We're lovvving it that you're here! :) 
 You're on the coolest and awesomest science facts website in the galaxy!!  
 Enjoy your visit and tell your friends! Science Rocks! Go Sciensational! 
 
    
     
     
 




  






















 

 
Tip: Use our Science Facts Search Engine to learn more about anything described in the facts:
 
 (e.g. diamond or prime number or snakes, etc.) 
 
   
     
     
     
     
     
   
 
  

 


  
  

 


 


 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  




 © 2011 Sciensational.com. All rights reserved.   Privacy Policy .