Golf Travel Club | golf holidays, golf breaks, golf tours and golf events including golf travel and golf weekend breaks in spain, algarve, dubai, morocco, turkey, uk, usa, cyprus and more 
 
 



 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You need to upgrade your Flash Player
 	  

 
  
 
  Home  
  Hotels  
  Golf Courses  
  Societies & Groups  
  Tournaments  
  Hospitality & The Open  
  Request A Quote  
  Contact Us  
 
 











 
 
 

 

 
 BOOKMARK 
 |  
RECOMMEND TO A FRIEND
  | 
 RSS  
 
 
     
 


 
  
 
 The Open Championship 
 
  
 
 Open Championship Hospitality at Royal Lytham & St Annes 

  

 


 Golf & Destination News 
 
 
 
  Latest Golf News  
	 Follow us on Twitter…. 
    Read More »  
  

 
 
 Information for Golfers 
 
 Frequently asked golfing questions & travel advice for golfers» 

 
 Concierge Services, including Holiday Extras, Holiday Taxis and Avis, Travel Insurance for 2010 » 
 

 

   
 





























































  

 
     
 

 Welcome to the Golf Travel Club 

 

 
	   
  
 Top 6 Golf Holiday Offers  

  1.Low Season Offer for staying at NH Resort in Sotogrande playing at Hotel Almenara!!    

  2. Accommodation & Golf Packages at Guadalmina from £389 per golfer per night!!    

  3. Pestana Sintra 4*, Western Algarve – golf & accommodation offers from £175 pp!!  

  4. Play 3 course at Oceanico Golf, staying at one of the Vila Gale Hotels in the Vilamoura Marina!  

  5. Precise 5* El Rompido Hotel & Golf Resort – 7 nights + 5 rounds from £259 pp!!  

  6. Praia D’El Rey Golf & Beach Resort, Obidos. 7 nights + 6 rounds of golf. from £375 per golfer!!   

	    Play at Polaris World.  Click here for the latest offers.   

	   

	 To make a booking or enquiry  CLICK HERE . 

	   

   Organising a group holiday or part of a golfing society?   – We want to hear from you!  

	   The Golf Travel Club offer excellent deals for groups of 8 or more, also giving top advice and booking assistance to group leaders … 
Click here for more information  
  
 Consumer Financial Protection – your money is safe with us.  
 Golf Travel Club is protected by the ATOL arrangements when you book your holiday or travel that includes flights and accommodation. Our ATOL number is 2711. Where you book a non-air inclusive holiday, and we act as the principal, your money is financially protected by our ABTA bonding arrangements. Our tour operating ABTA number is V1479.  

  Spanish golf holidays     Algarve golf holidays     Tenerife golf holidays     St Andrews golf Holidays     Scottish golf holidays     Lisbon golf holidays     Irish golf holidays  

	 We provide tailor-made golf holidays around the world to destinations such as the Algarve, Lisbon, Costa de la Luz, Costa del Sol, Almeria, Turkey, Morocco, Tenerife and Gran Canaria plus we can now offer a selection of exclusive golf resorts in Dubai, Mauritius and South Africa. 
  

	  Sports Tours International édition française   
 Club La Santa édition française  

	   
 

































  
 
     
 



 

 Holiday Search 
 

 
 
 
   

 
 
 
 

    Site Search  

   
 


  
Search by Location
 
   
     

     
    
       Search 
       

     

     
       
     

        

 
 Subscribe To Our eNewsletter 
  
 


  
  
 

   
 
 

 
 

  

    
 
 
 
Copyright © 2011 Golf Travel Club | 91 Walkden Road, Walkden, Manchester, M28 7BQ 
Tel:+44(0)161 703 5811 | Fax:+44(0)161 703 8547 |  sales [AT] golftravelclub.com  |  Privacy Policy  |  Links 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
Registered in England: 2207655.  Registered address: Sports Tours International Ltd, Spectrum, 56-58 Benson Road, Birchwood, Warrington, WA3 7PQ.