International Golf Adventures: Custom Golf Vacations, Holidays, Packages, and Incentives in Europe, the Mediterranean and worldwide 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 

          
  

  

       


             

 
              
                Destination Quick Pick:       Select a link Home Spain Portugal Scotland Morocco Tunisia Italy Kenya Golf Safari South Africa Dubai Thailand Australia / NZ Other Dom Republic Turkey USA Pebble Beach Las Vegas     
                                                                    
  International Golf Adventures Call for a free quotation 1.800.458.1792 USA 07092 010677 UK From other countries: 1-206-600-GOLF(4653)  Write to us!       
        
 

                  MEMBER since 1999        
 

          INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION
  OF GOLF TOUR OPERATORS      
   © 2001-2011  International  Golf Adventures      
                                   
                        
                                                  
                                                
     New Luxury USA Destinations   Las Vegas            Pebble Beach   Join us at the world?s richest professional golf tournament with $10,000,000 in prize money.  The Race to Dubai    Dream Destinations  - Luxurious golf vacations and holidays in exotic destinations.  Great golf and wonderful weather.  Custom golf tours worldwide.  Our feature destinations include:         

        Spain   Valderrama  Costa del Sol Costa Brava             Scotland   St Andrews, Troon, Turnberry, Carnoustie, Kingsbarns, Gleneagles and all the rest  .       

      Morocco    Marrakech &  Casablanca.                      Italy   Lake Como, Tuscany, Florence, Rome, Venice, Sardinia        Tunisia  Spa, Sea, Sun and Golf  Our favorite for Golf and Spa             Portugal     The Algarve, Lisbon & Estoril     .              Turkey  Unexpected Quality Golf  More Exotic Destinations:  Asia:     Australia     Thailand     New Zealand       China   Africa:       Dubai     Egypt    Kenya     South Africa   Latin America:    Dom Republic     Brazil      Argentina   
       
         ...Luxury golf vacations and golf tours... ...Custom golf holidays planned and led by golf professionals... ...Exotic destinations... Spain...Morocco...Thailand...Portugal..Italy...and worldwide ...Great entertainment and exciting options for non-golfers VIP and Celebrity specialists ...The Best Golf Vacation of Your Life!   
   Great Golf Courses  ? Famous masterpieces like Valderrama, host of the Ryder Cup and World Golf Championships. Exclusive private clubs like the Dar Salaam Royal Golf Club, built exclusively for the King of Morocco by Robert Trent Jones.    
   Wonderful Year-Round Weather  - Our destinations are selected with your comfort in mind.  Why face the rain and cold at home, when the paradise of the Mediterranean beckons.  Check the  weather forecast  at our feature destinations.    
   Professional Instruction  ? We feature private escorted tours led by golf teaching professionals. Whether you want a few tips for your short game, a private playing lesson with the pro, or a full golf school tuition program, it is always available.  Nearly all locations offer golf tuition programs.  
  
   Superb Playing Conditions  ? Experience the forgotten luxury of playing golf with your own personal  caddy.   We feature many exclusive private clubs with NO CROWDS and immaculate course conditions.  Our knowledge and experience enables us to steer you away from overcrowded golf courses and slow play.    
   Luxury Accommodations  ? Enjoy name brand luxury hotels such as Hyatt Regency, Hilton, Meridien, Kempinski and  the Leading Hotels of the World.  Or choose from among fabulous resorts like Morocco's Palmeraie Golf Palace. Whether you prefer the full red carpet luxury treatment or a deluxe value option, we  select only the best hotels and resorts in their class at eaqch destination.    
   Tourism and  Entertainment  ?  A full program of tourism, sightseeing and entertainment is also available.  Play golf next to the Pyramids of Giza.  Explore the mysteries of ancient castles and palaces.  Savor the taste of the best international cuisine.  Arabian Horses, Spanish Flamenco, Desert Sunrises and Mediterranean Sunsets are a few of the sights and sounds designed to dazzle the senses.  NEW!  
We now offer specialized Culture and History tours, combined with golf or independently.  Discover the Christian history of Moslem North Africa or the Moslem history of Catholic Spain.  Call or  write for more information .    
   And most important of all...    Superlative Service  - Every International Golf Adventure is specifically designed and tailored to your wishes. Our minimum group size in one person - you. Our professional golf & travel consultants are here to serve you and to customize your golf vacation according to your desires.  Close your eyes.  Dream a little.  Think of your ideal golf holiday, and let us help your dreams come true.  Your wish is our command!     Request a quotation  or call us today.  Call now for the  Best Golf Vacation of Your Life 1-800-458-1792  USA and Canada   From the UK, 07092 010677 Others call 1-206-600-GOLF(4653)  International Golf Adventures 10904 Scarsdale Blvd Ste 350-149 Houston, Texas  77089     
             [ Home ] [ Golf Pros Only ] [ Contact Us ] [ Booking ] [ About Us ]