Scotland Golf Vacation Tours Masters Golf Tournament Tickets 
 
 

  

 
 

 
	 
		 

		 
			 
				  
				      
				    
			 
			 

           
				 
				 
               

               

               

               
				   

               

               

               

               

               

               

               

               

               

               

               

               

               

              
				 
				 
			 
		 

		 
	 
 

 
	 
		 

		 
			 
				  

				 

				 
					 
						  
						  
						  
					 

					 
						  
					 

					 
						  

						 

						 

						 
						 

						 
						 

						 
						 
						 
						 
						 

						 
						 

						 
						 
						 

						 
						 
						 

						 
						 

						 
						 

						 
						 
						 

						 
						 

						 
						 
						 

						 
						 
						 
						 

						 
						 
						 
						 

						 
						 
						 
						 

						 
						 
						 
						 

						 
						 
						 
						 
						  

						 

						  
					 


					 
						  
					 

				 

				 

				          [-PAYMENT OPTIONS-]   

				        

				        

				               [-SITEMAP-]  

				 
				  
				 

						 
							 
								  
								  
								  
								  
								  
							 

							 
								  
								  
								  
								  
								  
							 

							 
								  
								  
								 

								



								 


								  The World's Leading Supplier of Custom Golf Vacations  

								



								For 27 spectacular years, SGH Golf has been arranging Golf tours to the World's finest golf destinations and tournaments.  We offer Scotland Golf Vacation Tours, Masters Golf Tournament Tickets and Hospitality, Ireland Golf Vacation Tours, British Open Golf Tickets, Ryder Cup Ticket Packages, Pebble Beach Golf Packages and Custom Golf Packages to England, Spain, Portugal, Mexico, The US Open and President's Cup.  Please look through our website, as we are confident you will find a golf vacation destination to fulfill your dreams. 

								SGH Golf will customize your vacation, sales meeting, or incentive trip to meet your specific needs.  Whether you are planning to travel alone, with a few friends, or in a large group, SGH Golf will arrange your vacation and give you the special attention to detail you deserve.  This individual attention has continually attracted people to SGH Golf for over 27 years and keeps them coming back! 

								         

								           Scotland                              Ireland                           England  

								         

								             Spain                                Portugal                        The Masters  
								         
								          British Open                        US Open                         Mexico  
								         
								          Ryder Cup                        Pebble Beach                 President's Cup  

								WHY CHOOSE SGH GOLF? 

								Why choose SGH Golf?  Our courteous staff has many years of experience in the golf travel industry and it is our pleasure to assist you with your golf vacation plans.  We take pride in our work as it provides our clients with memories to last a lifetime.  We realize that you, the customer, are our most important asset.  100% customer satisfaction is our goal.  Give us a call when you are ready to start planning and the rest is easy! 

								Please take a moment to look at some of our sample itineraries; they are just small examples of what we can provide.  All of our trips can be customized to your exact needs and budget. 

								We encourage you to experience all that this great game can offer, be it teeing off at St. Andrews Old Course or watching the final match at the Ryder Cup.  Take it from us; a one week golf vacation package will make for a lifetime of memories!! 

								If you are interested in booking a trip or getting a Free price quote  Click Here .

								     


								


								 
								  
								  
							 

							 
								  
								  
								  
								  
								  
							 

							 
								  
								  
								  
								  
								  
							 
						 

				 
				  
			 
		  

		 
	 
 

 
	 
		  Intl. Offices: Glasgow, Scotland. Dublin, Ireland. Marbella, Spain. USA: South Carolina, Georgia, North Carolina, Florida, Arizona, Colorado  
	 
	 
		  
	 
 
 
	 
		  Privacy Policy  
		  Terms & Conditions  
	 
 
 
	 
		   
	 
 
 
	 
		 
		© 2010 SGH Golf Inc. ? 6805 Mt Vernon Ave - Cincinnati, Ohio 45227- Tel: 1.800.284.8884 or 1-513.984.0414   