Golf Holidays in Spain, Algarve & Turkey with Golf Kings 
 
  
 
 
 
 

	  
	  
	  
	  

	  

	  
	  
	  


  

  

 
 
	 
		 
			     
					 
								 
									  
									  
									 
										 
								 
														  Home 
														  Destinations 
														  Courses 
														  Offers 
														  Essentials 
														  FAQ 
														  About us 
														  Links 
														  Contact 
														  Sitemap 
								 
										 
								  			  
									 
								 
								 
									    
								 
								 
									 
										  								 
									 
								 



								 
									 
										 
											 
											 
												 
													  Golf Holidays in Spain, Algarve & Turkey  
													   Golf Kings brings you a selection of some of the world's finest golf courses for a golfing holiday abroad. If you cannot find your chosen golf destination or golf course or simply need some inspiration contact us to discuss your golf breaks abroad. We specialise in golf holidays to Spain, golf holidays in the Algarve and other exotic locations such as Mauritius. 
 We realise that there are so many golf courses and destinations to choose from and here at Golf Kings we offer you this huge selection at fantastic prices. Whether you are looking for golf holidays to Spain or an  Algarve golf holiday  we provide in depth information on the destination, the hotels and the courses. Due to popular demand we have split our selection of Turkey golf holidays into  golf holidays to Belek  and golf holidays to Bodrum. If a golf holiday to Spain takes your fancy why not try one of our exclusive  Costa del Sol golf holidays .   
												 
												 
												 Newsletter 
												 To receive occasional updates on our offers type your email below: 
												        
												  » read our privacy policy  
												 
														Financial Protection with Golfkings 
														 
														Book with confidence - We are members of ABTA (ABTA C8261) and also ATOL holders (ATOL 5919).
												 
												 
												   
											 
										  
									 
								 
								 					
									 
										 
											 
												   
			 
				 
					 Search our offers and packages 
				 
			 
			  
				   Destination:   
		 -- anywhere --  Algarve  Costa Almeria  Costa Blanca  Costa Brava  Costa de la Luz  Costa Del Sol  Cyprus  Dubai  Gran Canaria  Lisbon  Madeira  Majorca  Mauritius  Murcia  Scotland  Tenerife  Thailand  Tunisia  Turkey Belek  Turkey Bodrum   
				 Departing in:   
		 -- anytime --  November 2011  December 2011  January 2012  February 2012  March 2012  April 2012  May 2012  June 2012  July 2012  August 2012  September 2012  October 2012  November 2012  December 2012   
				     
			 
		  
		 
												   
												  
		 
			 
				 
					 Search 
				 
			 
			 
				 
					  Find hotels and golf courses 
					        
				 
			 
		   
											 
																						 
			 
				 
					 
						 
							 Golf holiday destinations 
							    Algarve   Classic Algarve golf holiday venues including  Dona Filipa  and  Penina.         Costa Almeria   Great value and quality golf resorts including  Valle del Este  and  Almerimar Golf .        Costa Blanca   Villaitana Golf Resort and Hesperia Alicante are our favourites in the Alicante area.        Costa Brava   Close to Barcelona and Girona and home to PGA Catalunya and  Emporda Golf Resorts .       Costa de la Luz   A short drive East from Faro into Spain and the delights of  El Rompido  and  Islantilla .        Costa Del Sol   Home to Valderrama, Finca Cortesin, San Roque and many more great resorts.        Cyprus   Play the stunning new  Elea Golf Club  or the impressive  Aphrodite Hills Resort .        Gran Canaria   Play  Bandama , the first golf hotel on the Island, on the new Salobre Resort.       Lisbon     Praia del Rey ,  Oitavos Dunes  and great resorts including Cascais.        Madeira   A great climate with  Palheiro Golf  and  Santo da Serra  being both scenic and fun to play.        Majorca   A pocket of top courses in South West Majorca including  Poniente  and  Bendinat .        Mauritius   Island golf in the Indian Ocean at  Belle Mare Plage Legend  and many more.       Murcia   Golf in Murcia continues to be led by the outstanding at  La Manga Golf Resort .        Scotland   The best of Scottish golf including  Gleneagles ,  Turnberry  and St Andrews.        Tenerife   Golf in the sunshine at  Costa Adeje ,  Las Americas , Abama and  Golf del Sur .        Tunisia   Golf in Tunisia at Citrus Golf,  El Kantaoui ,  Flamingo , Yasmine and Palm Links.       Turkey Belek   Golf holidays to the leading golf resorts,  Sirene ,  Sueno  and  Cornelia Diamond .        Turkey Bodrum   Golf in Bodrum at  Vita Park Golf Resort .  First of two courses on the Milas coastline.                 
							  Historical weather and weather forecasts for your golf holiday »  
						 
					 
					 
						   
					 	
				 
			 
	 											 
												 
													 
														 
															 
																 
			 
				 
					 News 
					 
						 
							  Alan Rough Celebrity AM Golf Tournament  [24th Oct 11]  
							Book your place on the first Alan Rough Celebrity AM and enjoy the company of some sporting legends and some competitive golf over the outstanding Sultan and Pasha Courses at Antalya Golf Club.
 

(click on the image to enlarge)

(click on the image to enlarge)         ... »» 
							 
							   
							  La Quinta Golf Club - European Seniors Tour  [20th Sep 11]  
							
La Quinta Golf have been named as the host to the 2011 Benahavis Senior Masters from 10th to 16th October this year.  Located next to the stunning Melia La Quinta Golf & Spa Hotel, La Quinta Golf have 27 holes which will be closed to other players during the week, however  ... »» 
							 
						 
						 
							    
						 
					 
				 
			 
			 
				   
			 	
		 															 
															   
															 
																 
			 
				 
					 Play 3d Golf! 
					    
					Raining outside? Book a holiday abroad or test your game from your desk.
					    
				 
			 
			 
				   
			 	
		 															 
														 
													 
												 
											 

										 
									 
								 



  
  



						
		 
									 
										 
											 
												 © 2007-2011 by  CreartStudio.co.uk  
													 
														 Destinations  | 
														 Courses  | 
														 Offers  | 
														 Essentials  | 
														 FAQ  | 
														 About us  | 
														 Links  | 
														 Contact  | 
														 Sitemap 
													 
												 
							 

									 
								 
								 
									 
										
									 
								 
								 
									 
										 
		  
						 
						  
						SempleTravel holidays
					     
						 
						  
						myOzTrips
					     
						 
						  
						Award winning cruise specialist
					     
						 
						  
						Ski holidays, chalets & hotels
					     
						 
						  
						myCanadaTrips
					     
						 
						  
						Luxury holidays worldwide