Berkeley Lab: Did You Ever Wonder? 
 
 
 

 
 
    
      
   
   
      
   
    
      
       The National Cancer Institute estimates that nearly 13 
        percent (one in eight) of all women in the United States 
        will develop breast cancer. It remains the most common 
        malignancy among women in this country and, for those 
        between the ages of 40 and 45, the most lethal. Each year 
        more than 180,000 American women develop the disease, 
        and each year nearly 50,000 die from it. 
       
          
            
            
              
            A 
            cell's native microenvironment can play a vital role 
            in the development of cancer. This image shows breast 
            cells embedded in the extracellular matrix (ECM). 
            The cells' nuclei (large blue spheres) and the ECM 
            are constantly interacting, sending messages back 
            and forth. When cells become malignant, this communication 
            is disrupted. 
             Ê 
           
         
       
       Mina Bissell, an award-winning researcher in cell biology and the director 
        of Berkeley Lab's Life Sciences Division, came to this country from her 
        native Iran at the age of 18 to study chemistry. She received her doctorate 
        from Harvard University, with a focus on bacterial genetics. 
       This atypical background for breast-cancer research took 
        her off the beaten track: when most everyone else was 
        searching for oncogenes, cancer-causing genes, Bissell 
        was seeking a precise definition of the "normal" 
        state of affairs in cells. 
       "The answers led me to doubt that a change in a 
        single gene could cause cancer," she says. "It 
        didn't make any sense to me." 
       Further studies led Bissell to identify a link between 
        breast cancer and a network of fibrous and globular proteins 
        that surround and support breast cells, called the "extracellular 
        matrix" or ECM. Until Bissell's revelation, it had 
        been thought that the ECM was a sort of inert scaffolding 
        upon which cells grow and develop, with no obvious role 
        in malignancy. 
       Bissell has since demonstrated that the ECM is a dynamic 
        player in cell growth and development -- and in the spread 
        of cancer and other aberrations as well. Her theory, once 
        branded heretical, has now gained wide acceptance. 
        
         "Cancer 
          is the result not just of genetic change, not just of 
          loss of growth regulation, or of environmental factors 
          or aging, but an interweaving of all of these factors," 
          Bissell says. 
       
       "To understand the mechanisms involved in cancer 
        induction, one has to understand the factors that allow 
        the cells to retain their normal phenotype," she 
        says. "Given that all cells have the same genetic 
        information and almost all retain the ability to grow, 
        what tells the cells (in their natural habitat) to stop 
        growing? What allows them to retain form and function? 
        What makes a liver cell a liver and a breast cell a breast?" 
       Bissell's research provides some promising cues for possible 
        future therapies. Her research demonstrates that in some 
        cases what is happening outside a cell can be as important 
        as the presence of cancerous genes within. This points 
        to the possibility that the disease may be treated or 
        perhaps even prevented through means other than conventional 
        genetic therapy. 
       
          More  ... Ê  
       
       
          
               
             
            Ê