Did You Ever Wonder? Scientist profile: Jim Bishop 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
      
   
    
      
   
    
      
       
          
           Ê 
            
         
          
            
         
          
            
            
         
          
            
           Berkeley Lab researchers launch a SOLO 
            float equipped to measure and report on carbon in the sea. 
         
          
            
            
         
       
       The world's oceans cycle and store far more carbon than any other natural 
        system. Yet exactly what happens to carbon in the ocean is a mystery, 
        one we urgently need to solve.  
       "Before we can decide whether schemes for storing excess atmospheric 
        carbon in the ocean are safe -- or would even work at all -- we need to 
        know a lot more about the ocean carbon cycle," says Jim Bishop of 
        Berkeley Lab's Earth Sciences Division, who studies the chemistry and 
        biology of the sea.  
       Now a U.S. citizen, Bishop comes from a long line of Canadians. His father 
        was an engineer in the Canadian Army, decorated by Queen Elizabeth. "I 
        thought I was predestined to be an engineer," Bishop remarks. "I 
        was planning on majoring in engineering at the University of British Columbia 
        when I fell in love with chemistry."  
       Fate held another surprise: when a summer job he thought would have him 
        roaming the corridors of Parliament in Ottawa went to someone else, Bishop 
        found himself roaming the fiords of British Columbia instead, crewing 
        a Boston Whaler. An assistant in the Department of Fisheries, his orders 
        were to "pick up one of every living thing you see."  
       After a senior year studying quantum chemistry Bishop was back in the 
        boat, this time as skipper. "By now I was as interested in oceanography 
        as I was in chemistry, so I applied to do graduate work at institutions 
        that did both."  
       Given a choice of renowned establishments, Bishop chose the MIT/Woods 
        Hole Joint Program in Oceanography "partly for Boston's historic 
        buildings." On one of his research cruises near the Galapagos Islands, 
        his thesis advisor, John Edmond, found clues that later led to the discovery 
        of life around undersea hydrothermal vents.  
       "The experience with John taught me you almost never find what you 
        expect at sea; we're continually confronted with exciting new mysteries 
        to unravel -- which is the great value of a multidisciplinary approach," 
        Bishop says. "Working at sea is never easy. I learned not to give 
        up in the face of obstacles." 
       Following Bishop's doctorate he earned a postdoctoral fellowship and 
        research appointments at Columbia University's Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory 
        and NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies, where he used satellite 
        pictures to study ocean photosynthesis. After a stint as professor of 
        ocean sciences at the University of Victoria, Bishop joined UC Berkeley 
        and Berkeley Lab in 1998, where he teaches in the Department of Earth 
        and Planetary Science and devises instruments to study the ocean carbon 
        cycle. 
       "Berkeley Lab has such capabilities: in designing 
        and building new instruments, in attracting bright, dedicated students 
        . . . I can't imagine a better place for instrumental oceanography." 
        More about 
        Jim Bishop.