Did You Ever Wonder? Scientist profile: Antoni Tomsia 

 
 
 
 
 
    
      
   
    
      
   
    
      
       Someday, Antoni Tomsia’s research could help people live full lives 
        even as their bones weaken. The Berkeley Lab scientist recently received 
        a $4.3 million grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to develop 
        bone-like materials that could greatly improve implants such as artificial 
        hips and shoulders.  
       
          
            
            
         
          
               
            
         
          
             
             
         
          
            Antoni 
            Tomsia’s pursuit of better biomaterials blurs the boundaries 
            between several scientific disciplines.  
             
         
          
            
            
         
       
       Tomsia’s goal is to harness the latest advances in nanotechnology 
        to fabricate implants that repair themselves, adapt to changing physiological 
        conditions, and mesh with surrounding tissue — in other words, behave 
        like real bone. In contrast, today’s artificial joints are made 
        from metal alloys that often trigger inflammation and immune responses, 
        or require corrective surgery after only a few years. The need for better 
        biomaterials is further underscored by the growing demand for artificial 
        joints. More than 150,000 hip replacements and nearly 300,000 knee replacements 
        were performed in 2000, according to the National Center for Health Statistics. 
        These numbers are expected to swell in the future as baby boomers age. 
       To meet these demands, and create the next generation of artificial joints, 
        Tomsia has assembled a multidisciplinary team of scientists from Berkeley 
        Lab, the University of California's Berkeley and San Francisco campuses, 
        and other institutions.  
       
          
            
            
         
          
            
             
         
          
            
            
         
          
             
            Tomorrow’s 
            strong, long-lasting artificial joints could rely on scaffolding with 
            a dense core and increasingly greater porosity toward the surface. 
         
          
            
            
         
       
       “We’re at the interface of chemistry, biology, 
        materials science, and medicine,” says Tomsia, “Teamwork is 
        absolutely necessary to design better implants.”  
       Tomsia, who arrived from Poland as a postdoc in 1978, is a 25-year veteran 
        of Berkeley Lab's Materials Sciences Division.  
       His career has steadily trended toward the development of more lifelike 
        biomaterials. After following his father’s footsteps into materials 
        science, his Berkeley Lab research has focused on exploring the interface 
        between metals and ceramics. His foray into hydroxyapatite and hydrogel-based 
        materials began several years ago, when he designed coatings for industrial 
        applications as part of DOE Basic Energy Sciences-funded research. Now, 
        the NIH bioengineering research partnership grant allows Tomsia and his 
        team to more thoroughly investigate the biological attributes of these 
        substances.