Berkeley Lab: Did You Ever Wonder? 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    
      
   
   
      
   
    
      
       It's not just farms and forests that make soil valuable. Soil cycles 
        ten times more carbon than all the power plants, factories, and vehicles 
        in the world; its role in regulating atmosphere and climate makes soil 
        essential to life on Earth.  
       
          
            
            
              
             
            Margaret Torn samples the mineral content of runoff from melting snowfields 
            in the Rockies.  
         
       
       "Because of carbon respiration and storage, soils could be a key 
        determinant of how and when the global climate changes," says Margaret 
        Torn of Berkeley Lab's Earth Sciences Division. "Yet 
        soils are one of the aspects of the terrestrial carbon cycle we know least 
        about."
       Torn became intrigued with the living world when her family moved from 
        Los Angeles to rural Marin County. She was 11; walking the hills every 
        day, she wondered about human impacts on nature. Then, as a teenager, 
        political setbacks to environmental initiatives made her determined to 
        apply her math and science skills to studying and protecting ecosystems. 
       
       Torn studied natural history at the College of Marin; it made her a fan 
        of the community college system. "We had committed teachers who got 
        us out of the classroom. I learned to recognize all the trees and bird 
        species in the county."  
       She transferred to UC Berkeley, where one of her professors was studying 
        acid rain in the Colorado Rockies. After working at the site, "I 
        was hooked ? I knew I had to spend my career doing fieldwork."  
       Torn worked her way through college, graduated with highest honors, and 
        entered Berkeley's graduate Energy and Resources program. Meanwhile she 
        found time to coauthor In Our Own Hands, an influential book about 
        California's biological diversity. 
       Her focus was on the relationship of local processes to global phenomena 
        ? "how, for example, the methane flux of a single wetland contributes 
        to controlling the temperature of the whole Earth." After receiving 
        her Ph.D. in 1994, Torn went on to postdoctoral fellowships with two scientists 
        she considers "the best in the world" in their fields: Susan 
        Trumbore of UC Irvine, an expert in isotope geochemistry, and ecologist 
        Peter Vitousek at Stanford.  
       Torn joined Berkeley Lab in 1998. "It's a great combination: good 
        facilities, wide-ranging intellectual interests, and close collaborations 
        on the UC campus . . . plus a view of the Bay that can't be beat!" 
       
       Determined to bring exactness to ecology, Torn has become a national 
        expert on  how terrestrial 
        ecosystems affect the carbon cycle , and how humans are altering the 
        natural process. Her fieldwork has taken her to many sites, including 
        Hawaiian volcanoes, Alaskan tundra, and the Russian steppes. She says 
        field work is essential to ecology. "You may have a great theory, 
        but when you test it in the field, you often find you are wrong." 
       
       
          More  ... 
       
       
          
              
            Ê