Did You Ever Wonder? Scientist profile: Judith Campisi 

 
 
 
 
 
    
      
   
    
      
   
    
      
       Life's full of tradeoffs. Splurge on a vacation this year, and you're 
        forced to live frugally next year. The same holds true for cancer and 
        growing old: the very process that guards against tumors early in life 
        may contribute to aging later on.  
       At the heart of this tradeoff is a cellular response called senescence, 
        a little-understood process in which cells stop dividing. Senescence is 
        nature's way of fighting cancer. It's initiated in damaged cells that 
        are at risk of developing into tumors. If cells can't divide, cancer can't 
        spread. But ever since senescence was first observed 40 years ago, scientists 
        surmised it also contributes to the trappings of old age such as failing 
        eyesight, wrinkling skin, even cancer. The longer we live, the more senescent 
        cells accumulate, and the more tissue breaks down.  
       But how could something that guards against cancer turn so bad? Judy 
        Campisi has devoted the last fifteen years to exploring this Jekyll and 
        Hyde phenomenon. As a cell biologist in Berkeley Lab's Life Sciences Division, 
        she's at the forefront of understanding the shifting role of senescent 
        cells throughout the lifespan of organisms.  
       
          
           Ê 
            
         
          
            
             The very process that guards against tumors early 
              in life may contribute to aging later on. 
           
         
          
            
            
         
       
       Not surprisingly, her foray into the cellular underpinnings of aging 
        comes by way of cancer research. After receiving a Ph.D. in biochemistry 
        from New York's Stony Brook University, she studied the relationship between 
        cell cycles and cancer at Harvard Medical School. Next, she established 
        her own lab at Boston University and further explored how normal cells 
        become cancerous. She then came to Berkeley Lab in 1990 to focus on what 
        happens to cells after they stop dividing.  
       She knew that when cells become senescent, they secrete enzymes that 
        degrade nearby tissue. She also knew that some cells, in a completely 
        unrelated process, mutate and become pre-cancerous. Now, she's beginning 
        to learn how these two processes conspire to promote age-related cancer. 
        In young people, both cell mutations and senescence are often harmless 
        because odds are they don't occur near each other. In addition, healthy 
        tissue suppresses the spread of mutated cells.  
       But as people age, and the prevalence of mutations and senescence increases, 
        a dangerous game of chance develops. If a mutated cell appears next to 
        tissue that's been compromised by a senescent cell, the mutation can spread. 
        This is because damaged tissue can't suppress the growth of mutated cells. 
        So sooner or later, as people age and more and more of their cells either 
        mutate or become senescent, there's a good chance a mutation will occur 
        next to damaged tissue. And when this happens, conditions become ripe 
        for cancer. 
       That much is known. What isn't known is how a cell first becomes senescent. 
        And how and why do these cells secrete tissue-damaging enzymes? Even more 
        remote, but tantalizing, is the possibility of therapies that fight cancer 
        by reducing the effects of senescent cells.  
       "In theory, if you can get senescent cells to 
        die, you can retard cancer," Campisi says.  
        "You'd still have mutations, but you wouldn't have this all-important 
        synergy. Could we develop therapies that eliminate senescent cells, or 
        prevent them from secreting enzymes?" 
        More about 
        Judith Campisi's research