Did You Ever Wonder? Scientist profile: Kunxin Luo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
      
   
    
      
   
    
      
       There is a delicate balance in living cells between normal growth and 
        development and the runaway growth that is cancer. Kunxin Luo, a cell 
        biologist in Berkeley Lab's Life Sciences Division and at UC Berkeley, 
        has been looking at the ways in which this balance gets tilted in favor 
        of tumor development for epithelial cells, the cells lining the skin, 
        blood vessels, and other organs, which are involved in nearly 90 percent 
        of all human cancers.  
        "My group's research shows that in epithelial cells, two closely 
        related oncogene protein products, Ski and Sno, directly interact with 
        the protein products of tumor suppressor genes at a common point," 
        says Luo. "This indicates that tumor promoter and suppressor proteins 
        do not act independently as many scientists believe, but instead help 
        regulate one another's function."  
       Understanding the mechanisms by which a normal cell 
        becomes cancerous is like solving a puzzle, Luo says, and she has always 
        enjoyed solving puzzles. 
       
          
           Ê 
            
         
          
            
         
          
            
            
         
       
       That she would direct this interest to the sciences was in keeping with 
        a family tradition. Her father is a physicist and her mother a biochemist 
        in China, where Luo was born and raised. 
        Upon her graduation in 1986 from the University of Science and Technology 
        of China at the age of 20, with a bachelor's degree in biology, Luo was 
        encouraged by her parents to continue her education in the United States. 
        After a semester at Notre Dame, she transferred in the fall of 1987 to 
        UC San Diego, where she would go on to receive her Ph.D in biology in 
        1992. 
        "When I was a high school senior in China, biology was considered 
        the best major, and students with the highest exam scores often chose 
        biology by default," she says. "I chose biology because of my 
        own interest, although it was against the wishes of my parents who wanted 
        me to study computer science."  
        During her graduate studies, Luo's interest in biology began to zero 
        in on the protein signals that regulate vital cell processes. These days 
        she's specifically looking at the signals transmitted by TGF-§ (transforming 
        growth factor-beta), an extracellular protein that controls the growth 
        and differentiation of epithelial cells. 
        "TGF-§ is a very potent protein that affects many aspects 
        of cell function, including tumor suppression, wound healing and embryonic 
        development," Luo says. "I want to understand how the signals 
        initiated by TGF-§ become inactivated in many human cancer cells." 
        Being a research scientist is very demanding, Luo says, with twelve-hour 
        days in the lab not unusual.  
        "Biomedical research does not necessarily require genius, but it 
        does require persistence," she says. 
        Such persistence can be hard on personal relationships, but Luo's husband, 
        Qiang Zhou, understands. He too is a UC Berkeley scientist, studying the 
        molecular mechanisms behind the expression of the HIV gene. 
        More about Kunxin 
        Luo's research