Berkeley Lab: Did You Ever Wonder? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
      
   
    
      
   
    
      
       Lighting accounts for almost a fourth of the nation's 
        electrical energy consumption, yet it's one of the simplest 
        ways to save. 
       Getting people to use more efficient lighting has been 
        a crusade for Michael Siminovitch, who leads the project 
        to develop fixtures and applications within the lighting 
        group of Berkeley Lab's Environmental Energy Technologies 
        Division. His team has brought numerous technologies to 
        market, lighting spaces as small as offices and as big 
        as auditoriums. 
        
         Siminovitch 
          has learned that it's not enough just to invent a better 
          lamp. "You have to make people happy. It's the 
          most important thing in persuading them to change." 
       
       An undergraduate design-engineering student, Siminovitch 
        got intrigued by lighting during graduate work in architecture 
        at the University of Illinois. "The more I learned 
        about light, the more I realized what a difference it 
        could make in cost and livability." 
       
          
            
            
              
            Berkeley 
            Lab's energy-efficient torchieres give off "cool" 
            light. 
             Ê 
           
         
       
       With a Ph.D. in architecture and human factors from the 
        University of Michigan, he found a home in the lighting 
        research program at Berkeley Lab. "I like playing 
        with the apparatus," Siminovitch admits, and his 
        lighting lab is chock full of it, with names like the 
        Spectro-Radiometer, the Gonio-Photometer, and the Integrating 
        Sphere. 
       Technical developments from his team include torchieres 
        and other fixtures that use compact fluorescent lamps 
        (CFLs), better task lighting for the US Postal Service, 
        high performance kitchen lights, and improved lighting 
        for beverage machines. Equally important is the human 
        response built into the designs: "You have to balance 
        optical efficiency with the human factor." 
       For example, a handsome torchiere that uses a CFL instead 
        of a hot halogen lamp puts out the same amount of light 
        with a quarter the power -- and it's cool enough to touch, 
        dramatically reducing fire danger. An even more advanced 
        table lamp recently debuted. 
       Such inventions come from a small group of "really 
        bright engineers," including students; Siminovitch 
        credits Berkeley Lab's engineering-education outreach 
        programs for attracting excellent students. "We throw 
        real problems at them, and they share the credit. Projects 
        that make a difference give them real satisfaction." 
       Siminovitch's work is mirrored in his personal life. 
        For years he has dressed completely in black, at first 
        because "I didn't want to be a photometric error" 
        in brightness measurements, and later because "it 
        makes buying clothes a lot easier." Which saves time 
        for other projects: he and his wife are remodeling their 
        new home for maximum energy efficiency, with passive solar 
        heating, superinsulation -- and CFL torchieres in every 
        room. 
       
          More  ... 
       
       
          
              
            Ê