Did You Ever Wonder? Scientist profile: Miquel Salmeron  

 
 
 
 
 
    
      
   
    
      
   
    
      
       
          
            
            
         
          
            
         
          
            
            
         
          
            
           Scanning tunneling microscopy gives 
            Salmeron an atom-by-atom view of materials. 
         
          
            
            
         
       
       Not many people can see individual atoms. And even fewer people get to 
        manipulate them using state of the art tools. Miquel Salmeron is one of 
        these lucky few.  
         
        “My research focuses on trying to understand matter atom by atom, 
        as well as how to manipulate matter one atom at a time,” says Salmeron, 
        of Berkeley Lab’s Materials Sciences Division. “It’s 
        materials science, only on a scale that involves a very small number of 
        atoms.” 
       His quest to learn how atoms behave on metal surfaces and other materials 
        began years ago. “As a kid, I always liked science,” Salmeron 
        says. Born in Spain, Salmeron received an undergraduate degree in physics 
        from the University of Barcelona, and a doctorate in physics from the 
        Universidad Autónoma de Madrid. He then came to Berkeley Lab in 
        1984 to use a new kind of microscope that gives scientists a ringside 
        seat to the secret world of atoms.  
       Called a scanning tunneling microscope, the device detects individual 
        atoms using a probe that tapers down to a point only a single atom across. 
        This atom-tipped probe skims across a conductive surface, always maintaining 
        the same current between it and the surface atoms. If the probe moves 
        over an atom with an electron cloud that facilitates electronic conduction, 
        it rises up. If it moves over an atom with an electron cloud that does 
        not favor conduction, the probe drops down. These irregularities are fed 
        into a computer that produces an atom-by-atom contour map of the surface. 
       
          
            
            
         
          
            
            
         
          
            
            
         
          
           Under the scanning tunneling microscope, 
            vacancies appear as red bumps in the image of a palladium surface. 
            The two three-vacancy clusters, one located near the top and one on 
            the right, can facilitate hydrogen adsorption. 
            
         
          
            
            
         
       
       Back in 1984, the microscope was so new that scientists were only beginning 
        to learn how it could help them explore materials at the atomic level. 
       
       “When I came to Berkeley Lab, my proposed research topic was the 
        application of scanning tunneling microscopes to the study of surface 
        phenomena. I came here with the idea of developing the instrumentation 
        required to conduct this research,” Salmeron says. “And the 
        more I pursued the research, the more manipulating matter at the atomic 
        scale caught my imagination.” 
       For Salmeron, manipulation means just that: using the tiny tip of the 
        microscope almost like a pool cue. He can move atoms from one place to 
        another, make them rotate or spin, and even break molecules into their 
        constituent atoms like the opening shot of a pool game.  
       “Sometimes we watch atoms move, sometimes we 
        do the moving ourselves,” Salmeron says. 
        In addition to manipulating matter at the atomic scale, Salmeron’s 
        research group studies friction and adhesion in nanometer dimensions, 
        which is one billionth of a meter, or thousands of times thinner than 
        a human hair. He also studies the nanometer-scale structure of liquid 
        films during wetting and corrosion, and the catalytic and chemical properties 
        of surfaces.