Berkeley Lab: Did You Ever Wonder? 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    
      
   
   
      
   
    
      
       A nanometer is a billionth of a meter, the size of a 
        typical molecule -- a hundred-thousandth the width of 
        a human hair. Researchers are building incredibly small, 
        nanoscale devices with vast potential: imagine transistors 
        a thousandth their present size, or nanoprobes inside 
        living cells traveling on truly fantastic voyages. 
       Steven Louie of Berkeley Lab's Materials Sciences Division 
        studies possible nanostructures with supercomputers; he 
        and his colleagues then try to find or make the most interesting 
        kinds. They've invented remarkable nanodevices, and they 
        even have a scheme to make invisibly tiny supercomputers 
        someday. 
       
          
            
            
              
             
            An electronic device known as a diode can be formed 
            by joining two nanoscale carbon tubes with different 
            electronic properties. 
             Ê 
           
         
       
       Louie was a scientific early starter: as a child he helped 
        a neighbor in Hong Kong tear apart a vacuum-tube radio 
        and put it back together. "I didn't know what physics 
        was," he says, "but I knew I was fascinated 
        by the way things work." 
       When he was 11 he came to San Francisco with his mother 
        and siblings; his father had worked years to save enough 
        money to bring them. "In those days there were no 
        bilingual programs. Living in Chinatown eased the transition 
        to English, but it took me two years to catch up." 
       Science and math were no problem, however. Louie attended 
        Lowell High School; summers, he rode the bus to attend 
        math programs at UC Berkeley, where he subsequently earned 
        a B.A. 
       "The standard advice is to do your graduate work 
        somewhere else," he says, "but my father's illness 
        kept me at Berkeley, and that determined my career." 
        Marvin Cohen, a world authority in condensed matter physics, 
        became his advisor; years later Cohen and Louie became 
        partners in investigating the theory of materials. 
       Another advantage was a computer at nearby Berkeley Lab. 
        "Because high energy physicists needed to analyze 
        particle collisions, the Lab had a supercomputer, a state-of-the-art 
        Control Data 7600." Louie was there at the dawning 
        of the age of computational physics. 
       After earning his Ph.D. in 1976, he worked at IBM, Bell 
        Labs, and the University of Pennsylvania, returning to 
        Berkeley in 1980. A physics professor whose honors and 
        awards are among the highest in the field, he still uses 
        cutting-edge computers -- the supercomputers at the National 
        Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC). 
       Louie's research involves far more than nanodevices. 
        He studies many complex materials and phenomena, common 
        and strange, and he's even used a supercomputer to "visit" 
        the center of the Earth. He collaborates closely with 
        experimentalists, and many of his ideas come from discussions 
        with colleagues. 
 
          "That's 
          what makes Berkeley special: so many people doing different 
          things," Louie says. "What's important is 
          always the people first." 
        
       
          More  ... 
       
     
          
              
            Ê