Did You Ever Wonder? Scientist profile: David Bailey  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
      
   
    
      
   
    
      
       
          
           Ê 
            
         
          
            
         
          
            
            
         
          
            
           D.V. and G.V. Chudnovsky, who have 
            calculated pi to eight billion digits, plotted the first million as 
            a random walk in 3-D form, shown here.  
         
          
            
            
         
       
       Beginning 3.14159..., never cycling, and going on forever, pi's digits 
        certainly look random. Indeed, everybody "knows" they are, but 
        nobody has proved it or understands why.  
       David Bailey may be getting close. Bailey is chief technologist for the 
        National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) and an innovator 
        in the field of experimental mathematics -- a pursuit that has brought 
        him and his colleagues tantalizingly close to solving one of the mysteries 
        of pi.  
       Bailey was born in Provo, Utah, where his neighbors, mathematicians on 
        the faculty of Brigham Young University, became his role models. "I 
        remember learning in the fifth grade that there were formulas you could 
        use to calculate surfaces and volumes" -- for example, that a sphere's 
        surface area is equal to pi times its diameter squared -- "I thought 
        this was wonderful!"  
       Armed with curiosity and books from the public library, Bailey taught 
        himself enough math to win school prizes: one was a reference he still 
        uses, CRC Standard Mathematical Tables. As an undergraduate at 
        Brigham Young, his precocity landed him a job assisting his physics professor 
        in programming computers to do science. "I cut my teeth on computers 
        at BYU."  
       When he received his doctorate from Stanford in 1976, the market for 
        mathematicians was so bad that Ph.D.s were driving cabs and delivering 
        mail. Bailey's computing experience saved the day. He worked for institutions 
        like TRW Inc. and SRI International until 1984, when he moved to NASA 
        Ames Research Center.  
       There Bailey was in charge of "shaking down" NASA's first Cray-2 
        supercomputer; to test its ability to sustain a long calculation, he had 
        two of its four processors compute the first 29 million digits of pi. 
        "Much to the consternation of Seymour Cray, they came up with two 
        different answers. It took nine months to get the bugs out."?  
       In 1998 Bailey joined NERSC, charged with evaluating supercomputer performance 
        and improving numerical algorithms for running scientific calculations. 
        He is coauthor of an extensive library of high-precision software and 
        heads the Performance Evaluation Research Center, a group funded by the 
        Department of Energy's Office of Science to improve high-performance computing. 
       
       Bailey's collaborations with mathematicians like Jonathan and Peter Borwein, 
        Richard Crandall, and Helaman Ferguson have yielded important advances. 
        Among his prizes are the Sidney Fernbach Award for high-performance computing 
        and the Mathematical Association of America's Chauvenet Prize and Merten 
        Hasse Prize, awarded to gifted expositors.  
       Throughout his career, he has never lost his love for pure mathematics. 
        "To this day I live in two worlds, theoretical 
        math and scientific computing," Bailey says. "I'm trying to 
        marry these two by applying advanced computing to problems in pure mathematics. 
        Experimental mathematics is the outcome."  
       
        More about David Bailey