Berkeley Lab: Did You Ever Wonder? 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    
      
   
   
      
   
    
      
       Our nation generates over 40 million tons of hazardous waste each year, 
        and most of it ends up in the ground. One way to detoxify waste is to 
        "let the bugs eat it," an approach known formally as bioremediation. 
        But which bugs are best for a given job?  
         
        Hoi-Ying Holman of Berkeley Lab's Center for Environmental Biotechnology 
        finds part of the answer by using infrared synchrotron light to study 
        the biological response of living microbes to contaminants.  
         
        Born into a farming family near the border of Hong Kong with China, Holman 
        was always intrigued by nature. "I was fascinated by floods and weather, 
        and I wanted to know why my father had to set fires around the crops when 
        the cold air came." Her 
        fascination embraced cabbages, fish, lotus blossoms, insects 
        ? and, when she tagged along with the village women at night, a sky 
        filled with undimmed stars. 
       Sometimes there was electricity, and the radio played; the little girl 
        peered inside. "I 
        was looking for tiny humans; I thought there was a whole symphony in there." 
         
       Although traditional Chinese farm families saw no use educating girls 
        beyond the sixth grade, the village had a small library built with foreign 
        aid. There Holman read about science. A book about relativity, translated 
        from German, was one of many that intrigued her.  
       She determined to move to the city to live with her aunt and to learn 
        German at the Goethe Institute while attending high school. Later, at 
        the Chinese University of Hong Kong, she majored in earth sciences, but 
        the day she graduated ? with high honors ? she found out she 
        was too young for the German fellowship she'd counted on.  
       Hearing that an American was on campus, she ran to an unscheduled interview. 
        "We talked a long time. It was an English test, and I failed." 
        Not quite: the man offered her a year of English study at the University 
        of California. If she did well, she would be accepted for graduate work. 
       
       Because "I did not expect to do well," Holman packed one small 
        bag ? but a year later she knew English. Then, at UC Berkeley's college 
        of engineering, Professor Jerome Thomas invited her to design her own 
        Ph.D. program, combining engineering and chemistry.  
       Meanwhile she had struck up a conversation ? in German ? with 
        a Czech student; before long they were married, and Hoi-Ying's surname 
        became Holman.  
       In 1986 Holman joined Berkeley Lab as a postdoc. Later, as a staff scientist 
        in the multidisciplinary  Center 
        for Environmental Biotechnology , she was asked by its leader, Jennie 
        Hunter-Cevera, to substitute for her at a meeting at the Advanced Light 
        Source.  
       There Holman learned about the extraordinary capabilities of synchrotron 
        infrared beams, ideal for studying living cells. Thus began a remarkable 
        series of discoveries.  
       
          More  ... 
       
       
          
              
            Ê