Did You Ever Wonder? Scientist profile: Carolyn Larabell  

 
 
 
 
 
    
      
   
    
      
   
    
      
       
          
           Ê 
            
         
          
            
         
          
           Ê 
           Ê 
         
          
            
            Computer 
            visualization and x-ray microscopy combine to picture the interior 
            of living cells. 
         
          
            
            
         
       
       From Stone Age drawings on the walls of caves to Silicon Age micrographs 
        of atoms aligned in a crystal, humans have created images of that which 
        interests them so others can learn. What most interests Carolyn Larabell, 
        a cell biologist and microscopist with Berkeley Lab's Life Sciences Division, 
        are the proteins inside living cells and the things that they do. To image 
        these proteins and their activities, Larabell has mastered both electron 
        and confocal microscopy and is now blazing new trails with the x-ray microscope, 
        XM-1, at Berkeley Lab's Advanced Light Source (ALS). 
       "We've been one of the first to do live-cell imaging," says 
        Larabell of herself and her group, meaning that the cells are alive and 
        intact when imaged rather than fixed in a solution or sliced into thin 
        sections as required by other microscopy technologies. "This approach 
        tells both a spatial and temporal story, which is important because proteins 
        are dynamic rather than static."  
       Born and raised on a farm outside a small town in upper Michigan, Larabell 
        came to be a pioneer in the fledgling field of x-ray microscopy somewhat 
        circuitously, by way of a Ph.D. in zoology from Arizona State University. 
        It was while doing postdoctoral research at UC Davis on developmental 
        biology, that she got involved in electron microscopy in order to image 
        calcium. In 1994 she came to Berkeley Lab to set up an intermediate voltage 
        transmission electron microscope. She soon began working with visible 
        light wavelengths used in a confocal microscope. The dual experience served 
        her well for working with x-rays. 
       "Microscopists who work with visible light tend to use fast but 
        harsh cell preparation techniques, because at that resolution they won't 
        see their mistakes," she says. "With electron microscopy, every 
        flaw is literally magnified so the preparation techniques are incredibly 
        arduous. Having worked with both, I'm willing to change my protocols to 
        find the best and most efficient." 
       Larabell's flexible approach has reaped major dividends for the field 
        of cell biology. Her confocal images have graced the covers of numerous 
        scientific publications and her x-ray images are now poised to do likewise. 
        Working with the late x-ray microscope pioneer, Werner Myer-Illse, and 
        others, she has developed a technique for using x-ray microscopy to obtain 
        unprecedented images of labeled proteins inside of whole cells in a hydrated 
        state. Images, produced at XM-1, already show four times better resolution 
        than images from the best visible light microscopes. 
       "Our ultimate goal is to combine the spatial resolution 
        power of x-ray microscopy with the temporal information you can get from 
        visible light microscopy," Larabell says. "It's a lot of work 
        but I think we're making pretty good progress." 
        More 
        about Carolyn Larabell