Berkeley Lab: Did You Ever Wonder? 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    
      
   
   
      
   
    
      
       In a world where a billion people live without access 
        to safe water, more than six young children die every 
        minute because of contaminated drinking water. 
       Now a water purifier invented by Berkeley Lab physicist 
        Ashok Gadgil is bringing safe water to developing nations 
        and to victims of natural disasters. UV Waterworks is 
        portable, rugged, and inexpensive; it disinfects enough 
        water for a small village using no more power than a 60-watt 
        bulb -- power that, in a pinch, can be supplied by a bicycle 
        generator. 
       Growing up in Bombay, India, Gadgil knew he wanted to 
        be a scientist by the age of nine. No science kits were 
        available, so he had to be creative. "My chemistry 
        experiments stunk up the house." 
       
          
            
            
              
             
            Infants at the Lily of the Valley AIDS hospice for 
            orphans near Durban, which in August, 1997, became 
            the first site for the field test of UV Waterworks 
            in South Africa. 
             Ê 
           
         
       
       He read voraciously in his father's home library -- "Life, 
        Look, and Scientific American gave us a window on the outside 
        world," he says -- and by the sixth grade had read all his future 
        high school textbooks. 
       Although studying medicine or engineering was more respectable 
        than pure science in India at the time, Gadgil's father 
        believed that "if a child is passionate, let him 
        bloom in that direction." Gadgil earned physics degrees 
        from the University of Bombay and the Indian Institute 
        of Technology at Kanpur; in the early 1970s he went to 
        UC Berkeley, seeking practical experience in physics research. 
       Gadgil believes that in "a world of contending beliefs 
        and fickle artistic fashion, science reaches for bedrock 
        truth." And for him, truth has always had a human 
        dimension. 
       Shortly after he arrived in the US, an energy crisis 
        struck. He knew that "if the United States -- where 
        five percent of the world's population consumed almost 
        40 percent of the energy -- was in trouble, India would 
        be flattened." From then on he concentrated on environmental 
        physics. 
       With a Ph.D. from UC Berkeley in 1979, he joined Berkeley 
        Lab in 1980. Much of his work has been with solar energy, 
        biodiversity, conservation, and clean air.  
         "The 
        nice thing about being at Berkeley Lab," Gadgil says, 
        "is that even when conventional wisdom says it can't 
        be done, the tradition is to go out and do it anyway."  
       Today he leads a group in the Lab's Environmental Energy Technologies 
        Division studying how to control airborne pollutants inside buildings. 
        Gadgil holds numerous patents and has won numerous awards; as one of the 
        scientists profiled in the documentary feature film  Me 
        and Isaac Newton , he is even a "movie star."  
            
          More  ... 
       
       
          
               
             
            Ê