Berkeley Lab: Did You Ever Wonder? 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    
      
   
   
      
   
    
      
       Nobody knows what's driving the accelerating expansion of the universe. 
        Until recently, no one even suspected that the universe is accelerating! 
        Berkeley Lab scientists led the way to that surprising discovery, and 
        they are leading the effort to determine the nature of the "dark 
        energy" that is stretching space-time itself. 
       Astrophysicist Saul Perlmutter leads the international Supernova Cosmology 
        Project headquartered at Berkeley Lab. 
        
          "The 
          questions I would love to see answered have to do with the really fundamental 
          forces and elements of our universe," Perlmutter says. "Will 
          the universe last forever?"  
       
       He says that as a child, "I always enjoyed looking at the sky, but 
        I was never one of those people who had their own backyard telescope. 
        It was only because I started needing telescopes to answer the fundamental 
        questions that I started learning much about astronomy." 
       
          
            
            
         
          
            
              
             
             Ê 
           
         
       
       After graduating from Harvard magna cum laude in 1981, Perlmutter got 
        his Ph.D. from UC Berkeley in 1986. By then the astrophysical bug had 
        bitten him; one possibility that fascinated him was using robotic telescopes 
        to capture fleeting cosmic events "on the fly" -- events such 
        as relatively nearby exploding stars, called supernovae. Perlmutter and 
        his colleagues soon devised ways to guarantee that ever more distant supernovae 
        could be found; with their new search technique, a few nights on the world's 
        best telescopes dependably resulted in many new supernova discoveries. 
       In the next ten years the Supernova Cosmology Project found dozens of 
        distant type Ia supernovae, ideal for measuring the expansion of the universe. 
        The result was a surprise to scientists everywhere -- the universe is 
        expanding at an accelerating rate. In 1998, Science magazine named 
        the accelerating universe its "Breakthrough of the Year." 
       Perlmutter emphasizes the importance of group effort. As a violinist 
        who plays in orchestras for pleasure, he finds the same pleasure in scientific 
        collaboration. "I was somebody who had fewer individual heroes and 
        more collective heroes. The idea that people working together could understand 
        the world and that no single one of them by themselves could understand 
        the world, that really captured my imagination." 
        
         Berkeley 
          Lab is a place where the university is tightly interwoven with the kind 
          of facilities a national lab can provide" -- the perfect place 
          to find the necessary "unusual collection of bright people." 
         
       
       
          More  ... 
       
       
          
              
            Ê