Berkeley Lab: Did You Ever Wonder? 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    
      
   
   
      
   
    
      
       In the tissues of human beings and many other organisms, it's the surface 
        of the cell that allows it to sense, signal, and respond to its surroundings. 
       
			  
       "If we can learn how to engineer cell surfaces, we can learn how to control 
        the 'social' behavior of cells," says Carolyn Bertozzi of Berkeley 
        Lab's Materials Sciences and Physical Biosciences Divisions. "We 
        can target tumor cells and other disease cells for diagnosis and treatment; 
        we can insert genes into specially labeled cells; and we can design cells 
        to join with artificial materials." The list goes on.  
       
          
            
            
              
             
            Cell proteins perform numerous functions, including catalyzing complex 
            structures expressed on the cell surface (image courtesy of de Graffenried/Larabell). 
         
       
       Only a few years after earning her doctorate, Bertozzi has become associate 
        professor of chemistry and molecular and cell biology at UC Berkeley. 
        Her many honors include being named an investigator for the Howard Hughes 
        Medical Institute, being awarded a MacArthur Foundation "genius" 
        fellowship, and winning Berkeley's highest prize for teaching, the Distinguished 
        Teaching Award. 
       Her work combines the disciplines of chemistry and biology, but she almost 
        didn't become a scientist at all. She was good at so many things ? 
        history, literature, music ? it was hard to make a choice.  
       On her way to graduating summa cum laude from Harvard in 1988, Bertozzi 
        sang and played keyboards with a band who called themselves Bored of Education. 
        She still occasionally plays with a rock group of chemists who get together 
        at conferences.  
       It's hard to believe Carolyn Bertozzi was ever bored of anything. She 
        grew up in a family of high achievers, among them her father, an MIT professor 
        of physics, and her older sister, a professor of mathematics and physics 
        at Duke, whom she thinks of as "the smarter one in the family." 
        When Carolyn heard she'd been awarded a  MacArthur 
        fellowship , she says, "My first reaction was, they got the wrong 
        Bertozzi." 
       As an undergraduate biology major she discovered organic chemistry by 
        accident; she became entranced by it and soon changed her major to chemistry. 
        "Molecules are as diverse as human beings. Some are high energy, 
        others more complacent . . . strained, unpredictable, volatile, or explosive." 
       If Bertozzi were a molecule, she'd be one of the high-energy kind. She 
        did research at Massachusetts General Hospital, AT&T Bell Labs, and 
        Harvard as an undergraduate; then she came to California and received 
        her Ph.D. from UC Berkeley in 1993. After a postdoctoral fellowship at 
        UC San Francisco, she joined the UC Berkeley faculty and Berkeley Lab 
        in 1996. Today she keeps 40 students and postdocs busy  in 
        a lab that takes up half a floor of Latimer Hall.   
       Of her affiliation with Berkeley Lab, Bertozzi says: 
       "the 
        people here focus on collaborative research across many disciplines. That 
        is a key to encouraging creative thinking."  
       
          More  ... 
       
       
          
              
            Ê