Did You Ever Wonder? Scientist profile: Terumi Kohwi-Shigematsu 

 
 
 
 
 
    
      
   
    
      
   
    
      
       
          
           Ê 
            
         
          
            
           
         
          
            
            
         
          
            
            In 
            microscopic images of cells known as thymocytes, the protein SATB1 
            (gold) forms a cage-like network surrounding dense regions of chromatin 
            (blue).  
         
          
            
            
         
       
       The nucleus of a typical human cell is just millionths of a meter across, 
        yet the DNA inside is well over a meter long -- long enough to contain 
        the entire human genome. With DNA so tightly folded and packed, it's a 
        wonder any genes are accessible at all.  
       Terumi Kohwi-Shigematsu of Berkeley Lab's Life Sciences Division has 
        learned how the bundle of DNA and proteins called chromatin rearranges 
        itself to allow gene expression in cells known as thymocytes. The answer 
        involves two principles that have fascinated her since her school days: 
        biological structures and biochemical reactions.  
       When she was 16 her father, a Japanese official, moved their family from 
        Tokyo to the Washington, D.C. area. In high school there, she recalls, 
       
       "I was fascinated that living things could be 
        entirely made out of chemicals."  
       She majored in chemistry at Washington College, then got her master's 
        degree in physical chemistry at Johns Hopkins University by using x-ray 
        crystallography to study DNA molecules. But because she wanted to "study 
        biological systems from broader angles, not restricted to the few molecules 
        that could be made into crystals" -- and because in living things 
        biological molecules interact dynamically -- she returned to Tokyo University 
        for graduate studies in biochemistry.  
       There, DNA's different forms focused her twin interests in chemistry 
        and structure. "At the time everyone assumed DNA remains double-stranded 
        in living cells, but I believed DNA is dynamic and takes other forms." 
       
       She was 24 years old, at the turning point of her career. Encouraged 
        by her thesis advisor, she proved that a simple chemical, chloroacetaldehyde 
        ("It has a nice smell," she says, "but it can give you 
        lung cancer") reacts with single-stranded DNA and is an excellent 
        tool for examining protein-DNA reactions.  
       Meanwhile, in a neighboring lab, only one other graduate student, Yoshinori 
        Kohwi, was also dedicated enough to work through the hot summer months 
        without air conditioning. "We found each other alike, and we decided 
        to get married."  
       With Ph.D.s in hand, the newlyweds faced a problem. "Nori was offered 
        a tenured university position, but as a female in Japan I knew I would 
        not get an independent research position." She applied to the National 
        Institutes of Health and won a Fogarty Fellowship to study in the U.S. 
        Kohwi decided to accompany his wife to the Hutchinson Cancer Research 
        Center in Seattle, where both took postdoctoral positions.  
       When they later moved to the Burnham Institute in La Jolla, the institute 
        hired an immigration lawyer to help have her government visa's strict 
        requirement to return to Japan waived. "If I had returned," 
        she says, "I would be a housewife by now."  
       After 13 years in La Jolla, Kohwi-Shigematsu and her husband decided 
        to explore a different research environment at Berkeley Lab. Here they 
        have worked both together and independently to unravel the secrets of 
        DNA.  
       Additional information 
         More 
        about Terumi Kohwi-Shigematsu