Did You Ever Wonder? Scientist profile: Mary Helen Barcellos-Hoff  

 
 
 
 
 
    
      
   
    
      
   
    
      
       Mary Helen Barcellos-Hoff is a cell biologist who does cancer research 
        with Berkeley Lab’s Life Sciences Division. Her field of expertise 
        is the effect of ionizing radiation on tissue. Unlike most cancer researchers 
        who ask the question, "How do cells become cancerous?" Barcellos-Hoff 
        poses the question, "How do tissues become tumors?" 
       “It takes a tissue to make a tumor,” she 
        says. “Cells don’t become tumors without cooperation from 
        the surrounding cells in the tissue. Therefore, to understand cancer is 
        to understand a process that occurs at the tissue level.” 
       
          
            
            
         
          
            
         
          
            
            
         
          
            
            
         
          
            
            
         
          
            
           In this image of mouse mammary tissue 
            (top), the nuclei of breast cells are shown in blue, red shows areas 
            of active TGF-beta proteins, which inhibits mammary cell proliferation, 
            and green marks the site of progesterone receptors which are critical 
            to normal mammary tissue development. The research of Mary Helen Barcellos-Hoff 
            has focused on tissue response to ionizing radiation and how exposure 
            can lead to cancer through the disruption of communications between 
            cell nuclei and their environment. Bottom image: area enlargement. 
         
          
            
            
         
       
       Ionizing radiation is a well-established carcinogen but studies of its 
        cancer-causing effects have largely concentrated on genetic damage to 
        cells. Barcellos-Hoff shifted her focus onto tissue perhaps because her 
        unusual academic background gave her a fresh perspective on cancer research. 
        Barcellos-Hoff earned her undergraduate degree from the University of 
        Chicago in biopsychology, a field of research in which human behavior 
        is studied as the product of interactions between the brain, the body, 
        and the environment. Her Ph.D. was in experimental pathology from the 
        University of California at San Francisco where she still holds an appointment 
        in their Anatomy Department. She came to Berkeley Lab in 1986 to do postdoctoral 
        research in cell biology under Mina Bissell, the first scientist to link 
        breast cancer to the “extracellular matrix” or ECM, a support 
        network of proteins surrounding breast cells.  
        Barcellos-Hoff began studying what happens to the ECM after it has been 
        exposed to low doses of ionizing radiation. Her experiments showed that 
        proper communications between a cell and its ECM are crucial to normal 
        functioning. A breakdown in these communications can initiate the cancer 
        process or cause an abnormally high rate of apoptosis -- programmed cell 
        death -- another significant factor in the development of breast and other 
        cancers. 
       “Ionizing radiation is like a wound in that it produces a defensive 
        response from the affected tissue that helps protect undamaged cells and 
        eliminate those that have become abnormal,” Barcellos-Hoff says. 
        “If there is too much damage, however, the defense response can 
        then become a problem.” 
        The ECM has been programmed to send signals to the cells that would 
        suppress genomic mutations and cell apoptosis. However, as exposure to 
        low doses of ionizing radiation intensifies, this defense program becomes 
        corrupted and the wrong signals get transmitted. 
        “Under certain conditions, radiation exposure prevents normal 
        cell interactions, which in turn predisposes susceptible cells to genomic 
        instability that can result in mutations and apoptosis,” Barcellos-Hoff 
        says.  
        NASA recently awarded Barcellos-Hoff a $10 million grant for a five-year 
        study of the cancer risks posed to astronauts by radiation in space that 
        our atmosphere normally shields us from.