The Science Spot: Science Starters 
		 
		  
  
  
  
  

  	 
	 
		 
			                
			 
				 
					 
				 
					 
						 
							  
							  
							 
						  
						  
						  
					 
				 
				 
					 
				 
					 
						With the addition of a SmartBoard to my classroom three years ago, I started developing Science Starters presentations to use as class starters or warm-ups and have set up this page to share those with all of you. The starters are provided as PowerPoint 2003 files so they can be used with any interactive software (SmartBoard or Mimio) or just a projector. 
						 The starters typically take 5 minutes or less to complete and provide students with a focused activity to start class. I also like to use the starters to review material we have covered in class. It helps me gauge what they have remembered from previous lessons or lets me know that additional lessons are needed. Feel free to use the starters as they are provided or adapt them to fit your units of study.  
						 I provide students with a  Science Starters answer sheet  that has room for nine weeks worth of answers. The answer sheets are collected every Friday to be graded and then I return them on Monday for the new week. I also have an  answer sheet  with room for four weeks worth of answers or a weekly  Science Starters bookmark  available as an alternative to the standard answer sheet. 
						 
							 
								 NOTE: I don't use these in order or as sets, but rather mix them up throughout the unit. For example, during the Chemistry unit I will use Element Challenge starters for two days of the week, one Elemental Pun for another day, and pick others to fill in the last two days of the week. I use an answer sheet to help me keep track of the starters I have used. 
												 
											 
							 
						 
					 
				 
				 
					 
						 
							Also available ...
							  MiddleSchoolScience.com  - Liz has developed starters for her classes and will be adding new ones throughout the school year. 
							  Science Spot - Daily Science Trivia  and  Trivia To Go  - Visit these areas for trivia questions and question sets to use as quick class starter activities.  
							  Science Spot - Daily CSI Challenges  - Visit this page for warm-ups from my CSI class. 
									 
								 Loehman's Bell Ringers  - Check out the great bell ringers available at her DropBox site.  
									 
									 
								Links for more ideas ... 
							  About.com - Science Warm-Ups  - This site is a good source for questions to use as your class warm-up activities. 
							  Awesome Stories  - Explore this website for videos and audioclips that can be used to create starters for your classes. 
							  Classroomtools.com Warm-Ups  - Explore this site for great ideas to develop your own warm-up questions to challenge your students. 
							  How Stuff Works Videos  - Use the site search to find video clips on topics you address in your science classes.  
							  Internet4Teachers - Daily Doses  - Scroll down this page to find the science section with links to websites with ideas for class challenges. 
							  JLab Videos  - Visit the Frostbite Theater to find videos you can use to create warm-ups for your physical science classes or incorporate them into a science lesson. 
							  PBS Wired Science Podcasts  - Create a warm-up using one of the podcasts available from this site. Listen to the podcast and then challenge your students to answer questions about the material. 
								More podcasts:   Science Friday ,  Dragonfly TV ,  National Geographic ,  Bytesize Science ,  All Science Videocasts  
							  RadioLab  - Browse this site for podcasts that can be used for warm-ups for your science classes. Use their site search to find podcaasts on the topics you need! 
							  Scientific American - Daily Trivia  - This site posts a new question (and answer) each day. Also check out their  podcast  section for tidbits you can incorporate into a warm-up and class discussion. 
							  Space.com Videos  - This site provides a huge collection of videos for an assortment of topics in astronomy!   
									 
									 
									 
								Need more ideas?   
										- Check out your state's Department of Education website to find sample assessment questions that you can use to create warm-ups. 
										- Visit Science News sites to find the latest news to share with your students -  Science Daily ,  Science NOW ,  NOVA Science ,  Eureka Science News ,  New York Times Science . 
						 
					 
				 
				 
					 
						 Science Starters Topics 
							 
					 
					 
						 General Science  
						Science Scrambles A to Z, Scientists, Experiments, Safety, Microscopes, Measurement, Mystery Pictures, Inventors 
							 
						 Physical Science   
							Atoms, Elements, Periodic Table, Compounds, Elemental Puns, Table Teasers, Electricity 
						 
						 Biology 
							 Animals, Insects, Classificsation, Genetics & DNA, Human Body, Ecology, Food Webs, Environmental Issues 
						 Do you have starters that you'd like to share?  
									If so,  e-mail them to me  as PowerPoint 2003 and I'll add them to this page!