BBC/OU Open2.net - Science Shack -  Walk on water 



 
 
 
 

 
 


  



  

 
 

 
 






 









 

 

 

 




  


  


   
  





	  
	  
	  

	 



 

 




 

  skip to main content  
 

 

	 
		  
		  
		  	 
	   
	 
		 Site navigation 
			 
				  Home  
				  Open2 Today  
				  Programmes  
				  Learning  
				  Discussing  
				  A-Z Index  
			 
			 
      	 
           
	           Search  
            
             
            
			 
             
           
        
			 
		
		
	 

	   
	
   

 

 











 
     
        You Are Here:  

       Programmes  / 
	  
       Science Shack  / 
	  
      Walk on water



     

 
   




	 

	


	

	

	 




	 
	   
	



	 
	  




	



		 
			 


 Can you walk on water? 


	 
	
	 
	   
	 
	 

	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	
	
		 
		


	
















	
	

	
		
			
		
		
			
		 
	

	

	
	 
	Adam and the invisible car
	 
	







	
	 Feel the surface tension 
	
	  Can you cross a pool without falling in? Have a go at our  walking on water challenge .  








    
   







 
 







 	 





	  Adam Hart-Davis and the team investigate whether it's possible to walk on water, as part of the BBC/OU's Science Shack series.  




	  Adam visits the beautiful Lake District to tackle the question – can you walk on water? The  Science Shack  team build a variety of water walking devices, including hoverboots that work like a hovercraft (using leaf blowers), floating canoe shoes made from polystyrene, with big feet based on the amazing Jesus Christ Lizard.  Meanwhile, Adam gets upfront with the real experts – the tiny Water Measurer, the Jesus Christ Lizard, and a barefoot water skier shows him how speed matters.  The team’s efforts culminate in a Walking on Water Race on Lake Windermere that made the national news. It’s the  Science Shack  team against members of the public who’ve brought along their own devices. And the six competitors make quite a sight in their attempt to walk across the lake.  Have you ever wanted to walk on water? Think it's impossible? See how far you can go with the  Walking on Water Challenge !  Weblinks   Recreational Hovercraft  This site has loads of information about the best way to travel on top of water.   Jesus Christ Lizard  More information on the only animal that really walks on water. 

	




 

  Content last updated: 02/09/2005  







 
	
	
 







	   

	









 
 
 Bookmark with: 
 
	     
	
	     
	
	    
	
	     
	
	     
	
	    
	
	    
 
 

 Please wait while loading.  You must have JavaScript enabled to view star ratings. 

  

	   




  People who liked this page also liked:  

 


 How do flies walk on ceilings? 

 

  



 




	



 








 Comments 
 Please wait while loading.  You must have JavaScript enabled to view comments. 

  








	   
	 
	 

					


 
	
		


 
		 Sub-navigation 
   
    

        Science Shack 
 
	


      

  






	




	 
       Welcome 
	 





  

      




  




	



   

       First series 

     



    

      

      



	




        Walk on ceilings  





      



	




        When the oil runs out  





      



	




        How fast can your legs carry you?  





      



	




        Survive lightning  





      



	




        Biggest thing that can fly  





      



	




        Millennium Bridge  





      

      

    




  




	



   

       Second series 

     



    

      

      



	




        Walk on water  





      



	




        Make yourself invisible  





      



	




        Tallest building  





      



	




        Highest jump  





      



	




        Fly like a bird  





      



	




        Live underwater  





      

      

    




  




	



   

       Taking it further 

     



    

      

      



	




        Free learning  





      



	




        Forum  





      



	




        Free guide to courses  





      

      

    




  

 
 

	


	
	   

	 


	
		 
		 Explore Open2 

		
		


		 
		 





















 We're moving to a new home, and taking a new name: introducing  the all-new OpenLearn . 


		 


			


		 





















Get to grips with the science of sport and the history of the games:  Olympics on OpenLearn .


		  


			


		 





















The extraordinary world at the ends of the Earth  with  Frozen Planet on OpenLearn . 


		 


			
		
		
   	
	
	 
   






		 
			 Site info and help 
			 
				  Help  
				  Open2 Feedback  
				  Feeds  
				  Copyright  
				  Business Enquiries  
				  Sitemap