Resources for Science Learning at The Franklin Institute 

 

 

 

	 
			
		  
		
		 Resources for Science Learning 
			
			 
			
				  Home  
					
				  For Learners  
					
				  For Educators  
					
				  Leadership  
					
				  Partnership  
					
				  About Us  
			
			 
	 
	
	 

	    
	
		 
       		  
             Institute Awards 
              View The Franklin Institute Award Laureates.  The Awards honor science, engineering, and technology innovators from around the world. 
        
       
        
	          
             Curricular Companions 
              Curricular Companions  help 4th through 8th grade teachers implement the School District of Philadelphia's Core Curriculum.        

        
   
        

        
           	  
             The Case Files 
              The Case Files  tell stories from the history of science, like that of J. Presper Eckert, Jr. (pictured) and John Mauchly,  pioneers in large-scale computing . 
        
     

        
       		  
             The Automaton 
             The Institute's Automaton, acquired in 1928, has been restored and is now on display in " Amazing Machine ."  
        

		  

		 
			 Science Headlines 
   Supernova Birth Observed  Astronomers become the first to catch a star in the act of exploding.   New Source for Biofuels Discovered  A newly created microbe produces cellulose that can be turned into ethanol and other biofuels.   How We Distinguish One Voice From Many  Scientists discover auditory system sorts sounds based on their pitch.

   Swallowtail Larva  Juvenile hormones cause the swallowtail larva to change its appearance four times.  
		 


 
 Science Friday 
    
 

 
	
	 
				 
		   

		 
			 search 
			 Search the entire Franklin Institute website: 
			   
				 
				 
				 
				 
			   
			    
		 


		 
		
			 Around the Site 
		
			 
				  The Franklin Institute  See what's happening at Philadelphia's favorite science museum. 
				
				  The History of Science and Technology  showcases priceless artifacts from the Museum's collection 
				  The Human Heart  a variety of topics about this most important organ 
				  The Brain  the organ that makes you you 
				  Case Files  interesting stories from the history of science and technology 
				
				
			 
		
		 



	 




	  
	

	  Resources for Science Learning: © 2007 The Franklin Institute, 222 North Twentieth Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19103.