Science Eye 

  
  
  
 
 

  
  
  
  
  

 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
     
        
     
   
   
      
        Home 
           
              Employee Login  
           
       
        About Us 
           
              Contact Us  
           
       
        Programs 
           
              Classroom Safaris 
                 
                    Culture  
                    Deserts  
                    Forests  
                    Fossils  
                    Animal Encounters  
                    Oceans/Beaches  
                    Rocks & Minerals  
                    Sensory Safaris  
                    Space  
                    Weather  
                    Wetlands  
               
             
              Toddler Safaris  
              Field Expeditions  
              Enrichment For the Disabled  
              After Care  
              Camp  
              Scouts 
                 
                    Boy  
                    Girl  
               
             
              Birthday Parties  
              Family Science Night  
              Team Building  
              Teacher Professional Development  
              Programs Quick List  
           
       
        Related Organizations  
        FAQ  
        
   
   
     
       
        
         
            
                   
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                       
                         
                       
                       
                       
                       
                                          
                   
                
   
         
         
            
         
         
            Science and Environmental Education Consulting  
         
         
            Integrating Science, Math, Language Arts and Cultural Studies  
         
         
             
         
         
           Since 1985 our science and environmental educators have  taught over a half million teachers and students about the Everglades, beach,  forest, desert, rocks & minerals, fossils, comets, rockets, insects, American  Indians and much more! It has been our passion, and pleasure, to educate,  advocate and promote environmental conservation to ensure the responsibility  and sustainability of our environmental resources and to encourage stewardship  for future generations. 
         
         
             
         
         
             
         
        
         
             
         
         
            
            
            
             
                
                  
                   
                      
                     What's New 
                      
                   
                   
                       
                       
                       
                   
                   
                       
                       Camp and Weekend Excursions  
                       
                   
                  
                  
                  
                   
                                             
                      Everglades Excursion - This is a camp version of our one-of-a-kind Everglades Experience for ages 7 and up. Select the Panther, Hawk or  Bass level Everglades Excursion!  
                        Click here  for more information!  
                       
                   
                  
                   
                       
                      Coastal Excursion - Come explore the beach through the eyes of a Marine  Biologist and discover the wonders it has to offer.  Choose from up to 6 different activities to create your own Coastal Excursion. 
                        Click here  for more informaiton!  
                       
                   
                  
                   
                       
                       
                       
                   
                   
                       
                       Science Safaris  
                       
                   
                   
                       
                      Barnacle Billie/Billy  - Our “salt–from-the-sea” shares knowledge of our oceans with your students. This interactive safari will have teachers and students learning about some of the big and small creatures of the sea and the plights they face on the planet. 
                       
                   
                   
                       
                       
                       
                   
                   
                       
                      Name That Animal  - During this experience, young scientists see and touch a variety of skins from the different animal groups: reptiles, amphibians, fish, birds, and mammals. As a scientist, they will learn about each animal’s habitat and what it has on its menu. 
                       
                   
                   
                       
                       
                       
                   
                   
                       
                      Rainforest Investigations  - This program has young Wildlife Biologists piecing together the important components of habitats within the rainforest ecosystem as well as discovering the importance of what animals need to survive. 
                       
                   
                  
                   
                       
                       
                       
                   
                   
                       
                      Remarkable Reptiles  - Young Herpetologist examine creatures that have been around for millions of years. Discover what has helped them survive and see what truly makes them remarkable. 
                       
                   
                   
                       
                       
                       
                   
                  
                   
                       
                      Rockin' Rockets  - Our program gives a chance for beginning rocket engineers to understand how it all began. They will experiment with the principles of force and motion by traveling through time building different engines. Your students will have a “rockin’” good time. 
                       
                   
                   
                       
                       
                       
                   
                  
                   
                       
                      Sawgrass Sam  - Our Everglades resident is back and ready to take your class on an adventure and share stories about this fragile ecosystem and the critters that live in it.  
                      
                       
                   
                  

                   
                      
                       
                      
                   
                               
                 
                   
                       
                       
                       
                   
                   
                      
                      Employment Opportunities  
                      
                   
                   
                      
                      We are no longer accepting applications for employment. Please check back next school year.  
                      
                   
                 
                 
                
                
                 
                    
                    What We Do!  
                    
                 
                 
                     
                   We offer unique educational programs for… 
                     
                 
                 
                       
                     After Care  
                     
                     Birthday Parties  
                     
                     Camp  
                     
                    Clubs/Organizations 
                     
                     Family Science Night  
                     
                     Schools  
                    Public, Private & Home 
                     
                    Scouts:  Boy  &  Girl  
                     
                     Special Needs  
                     
                     Teacher Professional Development  
                     
                     Team Building  
                                              
                     
                 
                 
                    
                     Toddler   
                    
                 
               
                 
                 
                     
                     
                     
                 
                 
                    
                    2011-12 Events  
                    
                 
                 
                                           
                     Minority & Women Business Enterprise Expo  
August 4, 2011 
Piper High School 
                      Broward County Envirothon  
                      Date and Place TBD 
                       
                     Everglades Day 
                        February 2012, Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge 
                         Facebook Page  
                      Water Matters Day  
                        March 2012 Tree Tops Park 
                      LEEF Conference  
                        March 29-April 1, Wekiwa Springs State Park 
                      Florida State Envirothon  
                      Date and Place TBD 
                      EEC Stewardship Awards  
                        Date and Place TBD 
                         "Nominate a teacher, student, administrator or volunteer" 
                      FMSEA Conference  
                        Date and Place TBD 
                      NMEA Conference  
                        June 24-28, 2012 
                        Anchorage, Alaska 
                                              
                     
                 
                 
                    
                     
                    
                 
                                
             
            
             
                
                 
                     
                     
                     
                 
                 
                    
                   Thank you for visiting the Science Eye! 
                    
                 
                
                 
                    
                   They don't care how much you know until they know how much you care. 
                    
                 
                
               
            
            
         
       
     
   
   
       
   
   
        
     
      Questions | Comments | Book A Program  
       Contact Us  or 
    call 954-680-7977 or 1-800-2-SCIENCE 
   
   
      Copyright 1999-2011 Science Eye All Rights Reserved