Bill Nye the Science Guy 
	 	
	  
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	  
	  
	  
	  
		 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
						
	  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 


 
 
 



  
		  
    	  
		  
 
 
  
 
       
          
          
         	  
         	 
 The biggest spider found so far had a body 10 centimeters long and weighed 122 grams?          	 
          
          
  

 
 



      Home  
      About Bill Nye  
      Media  
      Appearances  
      Bill Nye Store  
      For Kids & Teachers  
      E-Cards  

      Contact Bill   
                     
				 

					 

						  Response to Watt’s Up  

						 
							 By  Bill Nye  | Published:  November 14, 2011 – 9:31 pm  
 O my friends, I have received numerous messages asking about the voice-over I did for the Climate Reality Project. My voice describes an experiment or demonstration that I’ve performed several times over the last 15 years. You can put pure carbon dioxide in a vessel, illuminate it with a bright hot lamp, and its temperature will be a few degrees warmer than an identical vessel filled with air. (I once did it with pure methane; the temperature rose in that vessel as well.) 
 The Climate Project people created their own version, but apparently they didn’t test it very well. One of our strident climate change deniers seized on their corner cutting and showed their demonstration didn’t demonstrate anything. I considered this part of healthy discourse: people cut corners; they got called on it and taken to task. Since it was my voice, I was considered to be a co-conspirator in the plot to fool the world into believing that our climate is changing. That’s reasonable in its way. 
 The Climate Project people used jars with lids that were too thick, the thermometers were not well placed, and the volume of gas in each vessel was greatly diminished by the presence of handsome, but voluminous globes and pedestals. When I’ve done this in the past, my apparatus did not have any of these shortcomings, so I got different results. 
 As the famous Boeing test pilot Tex Johnston remarked, “One test is worth a thousand expert opinions.” Try it; try your own version, and see if you measure a temperature difference. 
 One thing to note though, the guy who called us out on this drew an incorrect conclusion, or he made an erroneous claim. He says any change would have been caused by “… a completely different physical mechanism than actually occurs in our atmosphere…” That’s wrong. It is this mechanism. The model has to be set up properly. Keep in mind that our troposphere is several dozen kilometers thick, and it doesn’t comprise pure carbon dioxide. This is a model, a demonstration. Real atmospheric models are astonishingly complex. 
 Regardless of any shortcomings or shortcuts in the model shown by the Climate Reality Project advocacy group, the world is getting warmer, and we had all better do something about it. 
    
   
   
  

							 
Filed under:  Consider the Following   							 

						 

					 




				 
			 

			 
      		 
      										 
							 
								 Search 	
								 					
									 
	
										  
									 
								 
							 
						 					 
						  Categories 
							 
									  Consider the Following  (18)
 
	  Crush Ed  (3)
 
	  Space  (7)
 
	  Videos  (14)
 
							 
						 
					
						  Archives 
							 
									  November 2011  
	  August 2011  
	  December 2010  
	  November 2010  
	  October 2010  
	  September 2010  
	  August 2010  
	  July 2010  
	  June 2010  
	  May 2010  
	  April 2010  
	  March 2010  
	  February 2010  
	  December 2009  
	  November 2009  
							 
						 
						  RSS Feed 
						 
							    Subscribe to the Bill Nye the Science Guy's RSS Feed    
							  Subscribe by Email    
							   
						 
						  Join us on:  
					 
				 
				 
					  
					  
					  
				 
				  
				    
				 
					  		
				 
				
				 
					
				 	
			 
  
 
 

        
          
                
            	 © 2011 Bill Nye   ? 
                Home   ? 
                About Bill Nye   ? 
                Media   ? 
                Appearances   ? 
                Bill Nye Store   ? 
                For Kids & Teachers   ? 
                E-Cards   ? 
                Contact Bill Nye   ? 
                Site Map  
                Site by Rhizome Design