About the sciences and the philosopy of science. Physics, chemistry, biology and other sciences. 

 

 
 What does the word "science" really mean? 

 

    

      

       What 
        
        does "Science" mean?  
          
        by Stephen Tuell 
Translations: Romanian "Poart? pentru ?tiin??" by Alexander Ovsav [ click here ] 
Translations: Ukrainan: ?? ??????? "?????" ????????    Galina Miklosic [ click here ] 
        

      

       

   

    

      

          

          The word “Science” is, after all, a word. 

          We talking here about defining a written word, composed of a set of letters 

          ( S, C, I, E, N, C and E ), or a set of sounds, that by convention, correspond 

          to those letters. We cannot be sure that a set of letters or sounds 

          exists in any other language that refers to the same concept. When we 

          ask, “what is science”, we are asking what the concept is 

          that comes to mind when we see the this combination of letters or hear 

          the sounds we associate with them. As you will understand when you consider 

          this carefully, not every person responds to the word by calling up 

          the same idea. A lot of what is written about the philosophy of science 

          is motivated by a heartfelt desire on the part of the writer, not only 

          to explain and clarify, but to standardize the concept generated by 

          each person’s mind upon seeing or hearing the word.  

           

          I am not being cynical here. Symbols, including words, depend for their 

          usefulness on their ability to evoke similar ideas or concepts in everyone 

          attending to them. If you choose to read the thoughts of philosophers 

          of science included on this page, you must rely on their use of 

          explanatory words to allow you to understand what the word “science” 

          calls up in each writer’s mind. 

           Remember, “SCIENCE” is a word, wheter written 

            or spoken. The word is used as a symbol, a stimulus that points to 

            an idea created by human minds for a purpose. In the definitions by 

            the thinkers here and elsewhere, you will notice some agreement and 

            some disagreement. Most writers would agree, that their concept of 

            science includes a method that requires concise communication through 

            writing, reading, speaking and hearing. Most would add mathematics 

            to that list. It is no wonder so many have taken the time to think 

            about and write about his favored “definition” or “conceptual 

            response” to the word, “science”.  

           I want to tempt you to consider some other English 

            words that call up highly different responses in the minds of different 

            people. “Know”, “Expensive”, “God”, 

            “Art” ,“Love”, “Spirit”, “Good”, 

            “Polite”, “Sex”, “Freedom”, “Bad”, 

            “Fact”, “Believe”.  

             

            Stephen Tuell, 2007 

           

           From: Evolution Library Topic Page  

            “Science is a way of understanding the world, not a mountain 

            of facts. Before anyone can truly understand scientific information, 

            they must know how science works. Science does not prove anything 

            absolutely -- all scientific ideas are open to revision in the light 

            of new evidence. The process of science, therefore, involves making 

            educated guesses (hypotheses) that are then rigorously and repeatedly 

            tested. For a better understanding of the nature and process of science, 

            check out these links, books, and articles.” 

           From: Philosophy of Science History  

            “ Sir Francis Bacon : Bacon's method stressed first of all that 

            the scientist (or in his terms the natural philosopher) should rid 

            himself/herself of preconcieved notions or prejudices in order to 

            become "as a child before nature". Facts or observations 

            should then be collected in oreder to compile "natural and experimental 

            histories". Form this tabulated knowledge, correlations are sought, 

            with rules for distinguishing accidental and essential correlations. 

            By this method the true nature of the phenomenon being studied is 

            revealed.” 

           David Hume: 

            Hume is perhaps known for his profoundly sceptical tone. Building 

            on the work of John Locke (1632-1704), he analysed our knowledge of 

            causation, and came to the skeptical conclusion that, without making 

            any additional assumptions, it was impossible to obtain sound knowledge 

            of the "necessary" relationships between sequences of events. 

            Suppose you want to know whether A causes B. You make lots of observations 

            of B following A, and can find no instances of A not being followed 

            by B or being followed by something else. Despite all this, there 

            can never be any guarantee that B must follow A, and will always do 

            so in the future. So even in the best of circumstances, you have no 

            sound knowledge that A causes B.  

             

            This presents a bit of a difficulty for any theory of science. In 

            practice we invoke an important assumption to justify our faith in 

            observation and experiment telling us something valuable and reliable 

            about the universe. We assume that nature is uniform. In other words 

            we assume that if B follows A here, today, it will follow A somewhere 

            else tomorrow. However, this assumption cannot be independently validated. 

            It could let us down at any time or in any place.” 

             

            Immanuel Kant  

            " Kant was seriously disturbed by David Hume's radical scepticism. 

            In response he held that Hume placed too much emphasis on raw sense 

            data being all that there is to knowledge. It may start with data 

            from the senses but there is more to it than that. In particular he 

            introduced the idea that while objects in the world "out there" 

            have certain crude properties, the mind of the perceiver also supplies 

            some of the properties of objects. Nothing enters our experience completely 

            free of properties that the perceiving mind supplies. Subsequent research 

            has demonstrated that what Kant claimed of minds, actually goes on 

            in our brains. We are not simple receivers of raw sense data.” 

             

            John Herschel: 

            " He drew a vital distinction between the way things are discovered 

            (context of discovery) and the way they are investigated and established 

            (context of justification). He claimed that the manner in which a 

            theory was arrived at, was irrelevant to its acceptibility as a scientfic 

            theory. One might arrive at a theory by means of a dream or sudden 

            flash of inspiration, as well as by careful and painstaking examination 

            of a phenomenon. It made no difference. However, in judging a theory's 

            adequacy, observations were the key element. “ 

             

            Karl Popper:  

            "Perhaps one of his key ideas was that the best scientific theories 

            make the boldest claims and are, at least initially, the easiest to 

            "falsify". It is difficult to underestimate the influence 

            Popper had on Western (particularly British) science.” 

             

            Thomas Khun:  

            " Most scientists, most of the time, work within particular paradigms. 

            This determines, for example, which questions are worth asking. Scientists 

            continue to work within a paradigm, even in the face of evidence that 

            it's incorrect. As these anomalies build up, scientists begin to question 

            their paradigm. But, until there is a viable competitor, they continue 

            to stick with their paradigm. Usually, however, a competitor appears. 

            If this can explain more of the data (including anomalies) more successfully 

            than the old paradigm, then a "revolution" or "paradigm 

            shift" takes place. The old is replaced with the new. Science 

            therefore consist of different phases: normal science (when scientists 

            work within their paradigm) and scientific revolutions (when one paradigm 

            is overthrown for another). Progress in any any area comes about through 

            a series of revolutions.” 

            “The problem with this view was that it suggested that science 

            wasn't nearly as rational and objective as everyone had assumed. In 

            particular it suggested that theories actually conditioned the way 

            we perceived the world. The same basic data could "look" 

            very different when viewed from within different paradigms. And the 

            notion that scientists were just prepared to live with anomalies, 

            sometimes for long periods of time, until a new paradigm came along, 

            rather than actively searching out better alternatives, seemed not 

            to fit well with actual practice in many fields. Some would argue 

            that Kuhn opened up the way for later attacks on science.” 

             

            Imre Lakatos:  

            " Lakatos drew a distinction between refutation (evidence that 

            counts against a theory) and rejection (deciding that the original 

            theory has to be replaced by a new theory). He also argued that it's 

            not individual theories that are accepted/rejected/refuted, but something 

            more complex which he called a "research program". Any research 

            program contains different elements. In particular he defined two 

            terms: the positive and negative heuristic. The positive heuristic 

            was that part of the program which directed scientists toward fruitful 

            avenues of enquiry. The negative heuristic directed them away from 

            other issues and questions. He also argued that the core propositions 

            of any research program were insulated from being falsified by a "protective 

            belt" of auxiliary hypotheses. That's why research programs could 

            resist the occasional negative result. A successful research program 

            build up more and more of these, protecting the core ever more effectively. 

            However, lots of important negative results eat away at this belt, 

            eventually casting doubt on the core propositions.”  

           

           From: Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia  

            “Science is reasoned-based analysis of sensation upon our awareness. 

            As such, the scientific method cannot deduce anything about the realm 

            of reality that is beyond what is observable by existing or theoretical 

            means. When a manifestation of our reality previously considered supernatural 

            is understood in the terms of causes and consequences, it acquires 

            a scientific explanation. 

            Resting on reason and logic, along with other guidelines such as parsimony, 

            scientific theories are formulated and repeatedly tested by analyzing 

            how the collected evidence compares to the theory.” 

           From: Science definition 

            “The word science comes from the Latin "scientia," 

            meaning knowledge.  

            How do we define science? According to Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary, 

            the definition of science is "knowledge attained through study 

            or practice," or "knowledge covering general truths of the 

            operation of general laws, esp. as obtained and tested through scientific 

            method [and] concerned with the physical world."  

             

            What does that really mean? Science refers to a system of acquiring 

            knowledge. This system uses observation and experimentation to describe 

            and explain natural phenomena. The term science also refers to the 

            organized body of knowledge people have gained using that system. 

            Less formally, the word science often describes any systematic field 

            of study or the knowledge gained from it.  

             

            What is the purpose of science? Perhaps the most general description 

            is that the purpose of science is to produce useful models of reality. 

             

            Most scientific investigations use some form of the scientific method. 

            You can find out more about the scientific method here.  

             

            Science as defined above is sometimes called pure science to differentiate 

            it from applied science, which is the application of research to human 

            needs. Fields of science are commonly classified along two major lines: 

             

            - Natural sciences, the study of the natural world, and  

            - Social sciences, the systematic study of human behavior and society. 

            “ 

           From: What is Science , American Physical Society  

            “Science is the systematic enterprise of gathering knowledge 

            about the universe and organizing and condensing that knowledge into 

            testable laws and theories. 

            The success and credibility of science are anchored in the willingness 

            of scientists to: 

       

        

         Expose their ideas and results to independent testing and replication 

          by others. This requires the open exchange of data, procedures and materials. 

           

           

          Abandon or modify previously accepted conclusions when confronted with 

          more complete or reliable experimental or observational evidence.  

       

        Adherence to these principles provides a mechanism for self-correction 

        that is the foundation of the credibility of science.” 

       

        What is Science, Dan Berger  

        “I can see why I found this in the "unanswered questions" 

        queue. If all the words written to answer this question were laid end 

        to end, you probably still wouldn't get a straight answer. But I'm gonna 

        try anyhow... 

       

       Probably the most concise definition of science is: "Science is 

        what scientists do." 

         

        This is not an evasive answer. In fact, Michael Polanyi, who was a successful 

        physical chemist, defined science as a guild in which masters train apprentices 

        to the point that an apprentice is able to phrase and pursue scientific 

        problems on her/his own. What qualifies as a scientifically interesting 

        problem is then defined by the judgement of practicing scientists. Science 

        is a social construction of scientists, who jealously guard the perceived 

        accuracy of each others' results by constant questioning and correction. 

         

        One important criterion is that work be reproducible: others should be 

        able to get the same results given the same procedures. But this is not 

        always possible: perhaps someone (like an animal behaviorist or an astronomer) 

        has recorded a rare event; or, something which appeared in my own work, 

        perhaps a technique is difficult enough that others need expert coaching 

        to reproduce it. And some work is not seen (by the larger community) as 

        important enough to replicate. Time is finite, but of making many [experiments] 

        there is no end, and much study is a weariness of the flesh. -- Ecclesiastes 

        2:12  

         

        A good introduction to Polanyi's analysis of the scientific process may 

        be found in the little book Science, Faith and Society, which is a series 

        of three lectures Polanyi gave in 1946. It's about 100 pages long, and 

        while a junior high school student may find it a little difficult, I think 

        it is well and clearly written.  

         

        I would caution you that Polanyi's ideas have been distorted beyond recognition 

        by the more extreme post-modernists, who contend that, because all human 

        knowledge is socially constructed, none of it can have any claim to truth. 

        As long as it's "true for you," it's perfectly OK to claim, 

        without evidence, that the ancient Egyptians built airplanes. No scientist 

        -- not Polanyi, nor Thomas Kuhn, another favorite of post-modernists -- 

        would claim such rubbish.  

        But what is it that scientists do?  

        The central effort of the scientist was defined by the 18th-Century botanist 

        Ste phen Hales:  

        Since we are assured that the all-wise Creator has observed the most exact 

        proportions of number, weight and measure in the make of all things, the 

        most likely way therefore to get any insight into the nature of those 

        parts of the Creation which come within our observation must in all reason 

        be to number, weigh and measure. 

         

        And, crudely speaking, that's what scientists do: number, weigh and measure. 

        In fact, one need not even be a genius to be a good scientist as long 

        as one understands one's field and is willing to do the patient drudgework 

        of measurement. 

         

        Where one man of supreme genius has invented a method, a thousand lesser 

        men can apply it. 

        -- Bertrand Russell 

         

        But don't scientists make theories about what they find?  

        Certainly. Theory is the forging of knowledge into understanding, and 

        has be seen as a prosaic process. Einstein said the whole of science is 

        nothing more than a refinement of everyday thinking, and John Polkinghorne 

        has said that his career as a theoretical subatomic physicist was a matter 

        of trying desperately to keep up with experimental results.  

         

        Theory has its skeptics, and not everyone thinks its conclusions are always 

        valid; as Karl Popper said, Science may be described as the art of systematic 

        over-simplification.  

        Someone whom I cannot remember divided scientists into synthesizers, who 

        try to find the common core which explains a variety of facts, and the 

        diversifiers, who take joy from uncovering more and more complex processes. 

        Synthesizers tend to be theorists, and diversifiers experimentalists. 

        Probably the best statement of the diversifiers' point of view was found 

        in Science a while back, in a news story about the discovery of a new 

        subatomic particle predicted by theory:  

         

        "It was nice to find the confirmation of this process. But it 

        would have been even better to have found something totally unexpected, 

        so that the theorists would have had to go back and work harder." 

        -- paraphrase of an experimental physicist 

         

        So what is it scientists believe?  

        Scientists are people of simple faith in the intelligibility of the universe, 

        as Vannevar Bush saw.  

        "Science has a simple faith, which transcends utility... that it 

        is the privilege of man to learn to understand, and that this is his mission." 

        Science can be lifted onto such a pedestal that it is seen as the supreme 

        activity of humanity and its only source of truth; this is the basis of 

        logical positivism (here's another view), and of much modern materialism 

        and atheism.  

         

        A warning against the deification of science was given by Wyndham Lewis: 

         

        "When we say "science" we can either mean any manipulation 

         of the inventive and organizing power of the human intellect: 

         

        or we can mean ... the religion of science, the vulgarized derivative 

        from this pure activity manipulated by a sort of priestcraft into 

        a great religious and political weapon." 

         

        While some scientists take this inflated view of scientific knowledge, 

        most of them are more humble. For example, Duke University biologist Matt 

        Cartmill recently wrote in Discover magazine,  

        "If biologists don't want to see the theory of evolution  

        evicted from public schools because of its religious content, 

        they need to accept the limitations of science and  

        stop trying to draw vast, cosmic conclusions from  

        the plain facts of evolution. Humility isn't just a cardinal 

        virtue in Christian doctrine; it's also a virtue in the practic 

        e of science." 

         

        So what's the point of science, anyhow?  

        Scientists love their calling; it's one of the few professions in which 

        you can be paid for having fun. Francis S. Collins, who heads the Human 

        Genome Project, says that  

        "When something new is revealed ... I experience a feeling of 

        awe 

        at the realization that humanity now knows something only  

        God knew before."  

         

        Others go further: Steven Weinberg has written,  

        "The effort to understand the universe is one of the very few 

        things  

        that lifts human life a little above the level of farce, and gives it 

        some 

        of the grace of tragedy." 

         

        Many utilitarian answers have been given to the question of "what 

        good is it anyhow?" 

        Few can doubt the importance of technology ("applied science") 

        in their lives, and science is often justified because of the technology 

        it can lead to. Louis Pasteur pointed out that  

        There does not exist a category of science to which one can give the name 

        applied science.  

        There are science and the applications of science, bound together as the 

        fruit of the tree which bears it.But more importantly, science is one 

        of the human arts, in which the first qualification is to see the world 

        with wonder in your soul.  

        To paraphrase Sir Walter Scott,  

        Breathes there a man with soul so dead, who never unto himself hath 

        said, 

        Wow! This is really neat stuff! 

        -- cribbed from The Lay of the Last Minstrel 

         

        The scientist lives, even more than the artist,  

        To see a world in a grain of sand 

        And a heaven in a wild flower, 

        Hold infinity in the palm of your hand 

        And eternity in an hour. 

        William Blake (1757-1827), Auguries of Innocence “ 

       

         Other excellent definitions and discussions. 

          Too long to include here: 

           What 

          Is Science Feynman   

           What is Science? 

          A Baseline Definition .. Hooker 

           What is 

          science?  by Sun Nordwall  

           What 

          is Science?   

           

           

           A 

          Tabular History of Scientific Ideas That Challenged Fundamental Notions 

          of the World   

         

          

         

         An Illustrative Joke: 

          A carpenter, a school teacher, and scientist were traveling by train 

          through Scotland when they saw a black sheep through the window of the 

          train.  

          "Aha," said the carpenter with a smile, "I see that Scottish 

          sheep are black."  

          "Hmm," said the school teacher, "You mean that some Scottish 

          sheep are black."  

          "No," said the scientist glumly, "All we know is that 

          there is at least one sheep in Scotland, and that at least one side 

          of that one sheep is black." 

          

       

        

   

 

 

 

 

      



       

          

               

                          

                

         

          

           Email:  

             Stephen@imagine-hawaii.com  

             

             

         

          

           Last updated on                    
           Copyright 
            Imagine Hawaii  
          1995, 20101   
        
      
     
       
        

            Return  to 

            ImagineHawaii 

            