Home | Science.TV 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 


	
	  
 

 

 

	 
		 
        	 
	              Science.TV  
				 
		    		   Home  
  Workshops  
  Tips & Tricks  
  Videos  
  Partners  
  About us  
 
		    	 
	       	 
		 
     
    

	 
		 
			
			 
				 
					 
						 
							 
 Make Your Own Wildlife Film 
 Our quest to find the next Attenborough. 
   
 Work with fantastic wildlife footage under the guidance of a professional film maker. 
   
  Read more now...  
 
						 
						 
							
						 
					 
				 
				
				 
					  Make Your Own Wildlife Film    Sustainable Energy    Experiment!    Evolving education  
				 
			 
		 
	 
	
  
     
		 
			
			 
	
				 
					
					 
						 
							 Home page 
	                	 
						 
							 Know How 
 Science.tv is all about a simple idea: 
 Making documentary films about Science is a great way to learn about Science. 
 Digital media technology continues to fall in price and rise in capability.  This means that students in many of today’s schools have access to equipment that just a few years ago would have been the preserve of professionals. 
 In theory, students and teachers are now able to make their own high-quality documentaries. 
 In practice, we have found that there are barriers.  And that’s where we can help. 
 
 The Basics 
 Many teachers we’ve spoken to have tried film making projects.  They’ve had varying degrees of success and the problems they encounter are nearly always the same:  getting started; structure; sound; relevance to learning; time consumption. 
 We are assembling a set of resources here to help with all of the above: 
 
  Tips and tricks  to get you started 
  Tools and templates  to quickly plan your projects 
  Advice  on inexpensive kit 
 Lesson plan templates to help you map projects to the curriculum 
 Links to downloadable video assets you can use in your films 
 
 We also work with  The Bristol Film Academy  to offer a range of workshops to schools in the UK. 
   
						 
					 
				 
	 				
				 
					 
						 
     Login 
 
 
    
 
	  Username: 
	  
	  Password: 
	  
	     Login  
          Would you like to register?  
  
 
					 
					
					 
						 
     Latest blog entries 
 
 
     
      Good effort, but could do better  
     Alom Shaha gives his verdict on free educational science videos on the net. 
  
      Press Release - A Wind Turbine for Ansford School  
     Year Ten students from Ansford School at Castle Cary have been investigating the benefits of their school having its own wind turbine.
 
  
      Our challenge - in cartoon form  
     This sums it up 
 
 
					 
				 
      
	         
			   
		 
	 
    
     
		 
    		 
        		 
					 Latest Tweets 
 
   RT  @oddsocket : I liked a  @YouTube  videofrom  @sciencetv   http://t.co/ARYWjHE  Ben Goldacre on Homeopathy  » 
  2 weeks ago
  
   RT  @InclusiveLondon : Great video explaining muscles from  @sciencetv   http://t.co/z0feGu1o   » 
  2 weeks ago
 
  Follow us on Twitter  
				 
				 
					 
 About Science.TV 
 We connect schools with real science. 
 
      Sitemap  
      Privacy policy  
      Terms & conditions  
 
 
 
 Contact details 
 To find out what we can do for you: 
call 0844 870 8935 
 or 
 e-mail     h-e-l-l-o a-t s-c-i-e-n-c-e-.-t-v   
 
 In association with  The Bristol Film Academy