Dive and Discover : About Us 


 
  
  

  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  Home  
  Choose an Expedition 
 
  Exp. 1: Guaymas Basin : 2000   
  Exp. 2: East Pacific Rise : 2000   
  Exp. 3: East Pacific Rise #2 : 2000   
  Exp. 4: Indian Ocean : 2001   
  Exp. 5: Galapagos Islands : 2001   
  Exp. 6: Galapagos Rift : 2002   
  Exp. 7: New England Seamounts : 2003   
  Exp. 8: Juan de Fuca Ridge : 2004   
  Exp. 9: Return to Galapagos Rift : 2005   
  Exp. 10 : Antarctica : 2006   
  Exp. 11 : Gakkel Ridge, Arctic : 2007  
  Exp. 12 : South Atlantic : 2008  
  Exp. 13 : Gulf of Mexico : 2010   
  Exp. 14 : Mediterranean Deep Brines : 2011    
 
  Dive into Deeper Discovery  
 
  Deep Hypersaline Anoxic Basins  
  Deep Ocean Circulation   
  EarthÕs Anatomy   
  History of the Earth   
  History of Oceanography   
  Hydrothermal Vents   
  Ice Ages   
  Mid Ocean Ridges   
  Oceanographic Tools   
  Plate Tectonics   
  Polar Regions  
  Underwater Vehicles  
  Hot Topics   
  Interviews   
 
 
  For Teachers   
 
 

  
  
 
 
 
 
Ê
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
             Dive and Discover is... 
                an interactive distance learning Web site
                designed to immerse you in the excitement of discovery and exploration
                of the deep seafloor. Dive and Discover brings you right on board
                a series of research cruises around the globe,
                and gives you access to the latest oceanographic and deep submergence
                research as it happens!  
              Be at the front line of scientific inquiry and join
              scientistsÑgeologists, geophysicists, chemists and biologistsÑwho are exploring the seafloor and making amazing deep-sea discoveries.
              Daily updates, photos, videos, and e-mail correspondence with scientists
              aboard research vessels allow you to follow the progress of the
              scientific mission and find out about life on the floating laboratories
              at sea.  
             
               Woods
              Hole Oceanographic Institution 
                In 1927, a National Academy of Sciences committee
                concluded that it was time to "consider the share of the
                United States of America in a worldwide program of oceanographic
          research." 
              The committee's recommendation for establishing
              a permanent independent research laboratory on the East Coast to "prosecute
              oceanography in all its branches" led to the founding in 1930
              of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Woods Hole, Massachusetts.
              A $3 million grant from the Rockefeller Foundation supported the
              summer work of a dozen scientists, construction of a laboratory
              building and commissioning of a research vessel, the 142-foot ketch
              Atlantis, whose profile still forms the Institution's logo. 
              WHOI grew substantially to support significant defense-related
              research during World War II, and later began a steady growth in
              staff, research fleet, and scientific stature. Over the years,
              WHOI scientists have made discoveries about the ocean that have
              contributed to improving our commerce, health, national security,
              and quality of life. The Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution is
              a private, independent, not-for-profit corporation dedicated to
              research and higher education at the frontiers of ocean science. 
              Its primary mission is to develop and effectively
              communicate a fundamental understanding of the processes and characteristics
              governing how the oceans function and how they interact with the
              Earth as a whole. It is the goal of the Institution to be a world
              leader in advancing and communicating a basic understanding of
              the oceans and their decisive role in addressing global questions. 
             For more information:  www.whoi.edu   
             For more information regarding the Dive and Discover
              Project, contact Stephanie Murphy at  samurphy@whoi.edu  or
              508.289.2271. 
             
               National
                Science Foundation 
  The National Science Foundation (NSF) is an independent federal agency created
  by Congress in 1950 "to promote the progress of science; to advance the
  national health, prosperity, and welfare; to secure the national defenseÉ" With
  an annual budget of about $5.5 billion, they are the funding source for approximately
  20 percent of all federally supported basic research conducted by America's
  colleges and universities. In many fields such as mathematics, computer science
  and the social sciences, NSF is the major source of federal backing.  
             For more information:  www.nsf.gov  
             Ê 
             Ê  
           
 
 
   Mailing List  |  Feedback  |  Glossary  |  For Teachers  |  About Us  |  Contact  
© 2010 Dive and Discoverª. Dive and Discoverª is a registered trademark of  Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution  
  
 Ê 
 
 
 
 
 Ê