AntFarmhouse.com 
	 
	 
	 
 

 
 
	 
		 
		 
		  
		 
		 
		  
		 
		 
		  
		 
		 
		  
		 
		 
		  
		 
		 
		  
	 
	 
		  
		 
		  
		 
		  
		 
		  
		 
		  
		 
		  
		 
	 
 

 
	 
	
		 
			 
				 
					 



 


 

       
	  Chemistry  
       

       
	  Earth Science 
       

       
	  Living Environment 
       

       
	  Physics        

 
				 
					 
					 
					 My 
					Blog  
				 
				 
					  
				 
			 

       
	  Mr. Riccardo's Students        

       
	  Lesson Plans        

       
	  
	Experiments/Games        

       
	  Contact Me       

		
		   

					 
				 
			 
			 
			  Days Left Until School Ends!: 

              
 

					 
			   
			   

		
		 

		 
			 
				 
					 

 
   
 Alexa Rose is finally 
here! All is well. Thank you so much for all of your generosity during this amazing 
time. Mrs. R and I are blessed by having such wonderful people in 
our lives. 
   
 
 Click here to see some early pictures  
   
   
 It's been a busy year so far and many new 
updates to follow. Currently I am working with my students from Pan American 
International High School (PAIHS) on designing and maintaining the school's 
website.  
 We're still working on a domain name, but 
you can still check it out during construction. 
   
  PAIHS WEBSITE 
(Click here)   
   
 Welcome to AntFarmhouse.com 
    
 As a Science teacher in New 
York, my hope is that this site becomes a source for you to discover all the 
wonderful and interesting branches of Science as well as a place to share some 
of my many interests.  
 It will be available to students, teachers, parents, or anyone with a thirst for 
scientific knowledge. My vision is to make this site an organized collection of 
the multitude of science related websites, educational activities and supplies, 
articles, discussions, and lesson plans.   
 As with any journey, it begins 
with the first step. This is the initial attempt at the website and  I plan 
to update it regularly. For it to truly grow into tremendous scientific resource 
your input is needed and desired. Contact me with ideas, suggestions for links, 
and submission of materials. Enjoy 
and thanks for visiting! 
   

 Instant Classic!  Right 
Click on link below and Save Target As... to download the very first episode. 
You need Windows Media Player to view.  Enjoy the 
show! 
 
 
Greatest Moments in Science History- Episode #1  
 


   
				 
				 
					 
  
				 
			 			
		 
	 
 


  
 

  
This site is © Copyright AntFarmhouse.com 2008, All Rights Reserved. 

			 
			 Website templates  
				
 
  
  
 