The Science Spot 
		 
		 
		  
  
  
  
  
  

  	 
	 
		 
			 
				  
				 
					  
					   
					 
						  
						  
						 
					   
				 
				 
					   
					  
					   
					   
				 
				 
					   
					    
					   
					   
				 
				 
					   
					    
					   
				 
				 
					    
					   
					   
				 
				 
					  
					   
				 
				 
					   
					 
						  
						  
						 
					   
					   
				 
				 
					   
					   
				 
				 
					   
					  
					   
					   
				 
				 
					   
					 
						 
							Welcome to the Science Spot website, a resource for middle school teachers and students!  
							 
								 
									 
										          
								 
							 
							  
							  
					 
					   
					   
				 
				 
					   
					 
						  
						  
						 
					   
					   
				 
				 
					   
					 
						 
							Become a fan! 
								 The Science Spot   
							   
							 Promote Your Page Too  
					 
					   
					   
				 
				 
					   
					 
						 
							Also available ... 
					 
					   
					   
				 
				 
					   
					    
					    
					    
					   
					   
				 
				 
					   
					    
					   
				 
				 
					 
						 
							 
							Check out my blog ... Mrs. T's Technology Spot! 
								
								  
					 
					   
				 
				 
					   
					   
				 
				 
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
					   
				 
			 
			 
			  
			  
			 
			
			    
			
			 
				 
					 
						   
						   
						   
					 
					 
						  
						   
					 
					 
						   
						   
						    
						   
						   
						   
						    
						   
					 
					 
						 
							 
								 
									 
										 Be a Whole Brain Teacher! Visit  Whole Brain Teaching.com  to learn more!  
										 Last Updated: 
										11/9/11 
												 
													Visitors since 4/17/99 
											
											  
										 
										 
											  
										 
										  
										 
											 Questions or comments? Visit my  FAQ page  or send an e-mail to the  webmaster ! 
													The Science Spot was developed in March 1999 by 
											 Tracy Trimpe  
													8th Grade Science Teacher @  Havana Junior High , Havana, IL 
											 Activities, 
											lessons, & worksheets available on 
											any page of this web site are 
											intended for use by a single teacher 
											in his/her classroom or to share at 
											educational conferences. 
											Reproduction for commercial use or 
											profit is not permitted without the 
											consent of Tracy Trimpe. Visit my  Frequently Asked Questions  page for more details. 
										 
									 
								 
							 
						 
						   
					 
					 
						   
						   
						    
						   
					 
					 
						    
						   
					 
					 
						 
						  
						   
					 
					 
						 
							 
								 More Awards 
											& Webrings  
						 
						   
					 
					 
						   
						   
						   
					 
					 
						  
						   
					 
					 
						   
						   
						   
						   
						   
						   
						   
						   
						   
						   
					 
				 
				 
				 
				  
  







				By placing the badge code above the publisher must agree to the following terms and conditions. In order for a publisher's site(s) to continue participation in the HotChalk Media Group, any publisher associated with the HotChalk Media Group is hereby required to badge the bottom center of any site published within the HotChalk Media Group. The badge creative required for the badging initiative has been provided via email by HotChalk Inc. Any recreation, misplacement or misuse of the badge is strictly prohibited. In the event a publisher, after joining the Media Group as a publisher, breaches or otherwise fails to comply with any provision of these Terms and Conditions, HotChalk, Inc. reserves the right to terminate the participation of such publishers at any time.
					
					 
					            
				 
				  Privacy Policy