Welcome to goENC.com  
	 
	  
      
 


 

 
 
	   
	 

 
 
	    
	   

	 
	
	
	  
  
	 
	  
 
 

 
 
	  



	  
	  Subscribe to goENC.com  
	  


	  


	  
	  About goENC.com  
	  


	  





	  
	  Contact goENC.com  
	  




	  
 
 

 
 
	  
	  
	  
 
 
	  
 
 
	 	 
	 
 ENC.ORG is now goENC.COM! 
   
 You have reached this web page because the Eisenhower National Clearinghouse (ENC) is no longer funded by the U.S. Department of Education and has discontinued operations as of September 29, 2005.
   
   
  ENC materials are still available from our new web site,  goENC.com .  goENC.com is a subscription service that continues to offer the same timely, high-quality math and science resources you've come to expect from ENC.  From professional development to lesson plans to web resources, it's all here.  Learn how your school, school district, university, or library can subscribe at  goENC.com/subscribe/ .
  We have also added subscriptions for individuals.  
   
  For further information, contact a representative from goENC.com by email at  info@goENC.com  or by phone at (800) 471-1045.   
 Did You Know: 
 goENC.com has been recognized as a key contributor in building a "core collection of digital resources" in K-12 education. The most important criterion for inclusion was "the reliability and trustworthiness of the information resource." Other criteria included ease of access and the quality of resources provided.   
 The new goENC.com web site has also been recognized as one of the best web sites for both math and science K-12 teachers.  According to District Administration, the Magazine for K-12 Education Leaders, goENC.com is one of 8 recommended mathematics web sites, and one of 9 recommended science sites.  Most importantly, goENC.com is the only web site that is included in both the mathematics and science recommended web sites.  
 
     
   
   
   
   
   


     
    
 

	 
	  
  
  
  
    



 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
	   
	   
	  
	 ©ENC Learning Inc. 2010 
 
 

 
	  