HowStuffWorks "Learn how Everything Works!"  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 


  
 
  
	  
 
	 
  
  
  
		 
			 
 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
	 
         
                  
                Ê
         
         
                 
			 
				
					 
				
				 
			 
                 
         
	 
		  
		  
	 
 
 
 
	 
	 
		  Adventure  		  Auto  		  Culture  		  Entertainment  		  Home & Garden  		  Money  		  Science  		  Tech  		  Video  
		  Shows  
		  Blogs  
		  Quizzes  
		  Games  
		  Random Article  
	 
 
 
 
			 
			 
				 
  
	 
		 
			 
  most popular  
  quizzes  
  countdowns  
  podcasts  
  games  
 
		 
		 
			 
	 
  
	 
		 
			 
	 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 How Pepper Spray Works   A woman accused of attacking 20 fellow shoppers with pepper spray in a Walmart on Black Friday is refusing to speak to authorities. What's the science behind her spicy weapon of choice, and how much damage can it do?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 What's more important, water on the moon or on Mars?   On Nov. 26, NASA launched the rover Curiosity, which will analyze the surface of Mars and assess its ability to support life. Scientists have already found evidence of water on the moon, but would water on Mars be a more important discovery?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Stuff You Should Know Video: Ice Fishing, Finance and Presidential Extravaganza   Chuck and Josh from Stuff You Should Know offer up the coolest stuff they know in less than two minutes. Join them as they investigate topics from hangovers to ice fishing to presidential perks. Can you outsmart these wise guys?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 5 Toys You Control with an iPhone   With your iPhone in hand, you can control all manner of toys, gadgets and games. What are five app-controlled toys that'll grace the must-have lists of gadget geeks?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 What's the most efficient insulation material?   In this day and age of green living and energy efficiency, the type of insulation you choose for your home can make all the difference. So, what's the best? We'll tell you.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 5 No-brainer Money-Saving Tips Everyone Forgets   Everyone likes to save money, but there are always ways to save that you've overlooked. You'll be shocked at how much these no-brainer tips can save you.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 How Snakes Work   Two-headed snakes have been in the news recently: a king snake found in Clarksville, Tenn., and a rare albino Honduran milk snake born with two heads in a lab at the University of Central Florida. What makes these reptiles so fascinating, and why are people afraid of them?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Is Gorilla Glass used in an iPad?   If you're thinking about gifting yourself a shiny new iPad this year, you might be wondering what it's made of. Corning keeps mum on the products that use its super-tough Gorilla Glass. Apple is notorious for keeping quiet about its products as well. Which makes people wonder -- are the two working together?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 What's the most efficient insulation material?   Winter is coming in just a few short weeks. The type of insulation you choose for your home can make all the difference between staying toasty or suffering until springtime. Do you know what insulation works the best? We'll tell you.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Top 10 Public Enemies   Bank robber Baby Face Nelson, an associate of gangster John Dillinger, met his end on Nov. 27, 1934 in a dramatic street shoot-out with the FBI. Who are the world's most notorious public enemies?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 How Mars Works   The first man-made object destined for the surface of Mars reached the Red Planet forty years ago Sunday. Unfortunately, it was a crash landing for the Soviet Mars 2 descent module. What have we learned about our planetary neighbor since these early efforts?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 The Jobs Effect: The Man, The Myth and The Mac   As the innovative leader of Apple, Steve Jobs left behind a global legacy. But who was he, and what will Apple become without him? Join Ben Bowlin and TechStuff's Jonathan Strickland as they look back on the life and legacy of Steve Jobs.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 How Trains Work   New York City's Penn Station started regular service 101 years ago. Today it is still one of the busiest train stations on the planet. What does it take to keep trains running on time?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Was there really a curse on King Tutankhamen's tomb?   Eighty-nine years ago, Howard Carter rediscovered King Tut's tomb in Egypt. Just a few months later, the tomb was unsealed. Was that a bad idea?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 How Web Comics Work   Charles Schulz, known for cartooning his "Peanuts" comic strip for nearly 50 years, would have turned 89 on Saturday. Read how today's Internet cartoonists create their successors to Charlie Brown, Snoopy, Linus and Lucy.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 How Concordes Work   It's been eight years since the Concorde made its final flight and returned to the hangar for good. Why would they retire the only passenger plane to fly faster than the speed of sound?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 10 Terribly Bungled Crimes   On Nov. 26, 1983 an armed gang plotted and carried out the greatest robbery in British history at London's Heathrow Airport. Read about 10 crimes that didn't go so well.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Is Black Friday the biggest shopping day of the year?   Waiting in endless checkout lines can make Scrooges out of the cheeriest holiday shoppers. Many of us braved the mall mayhem to be part of the Black Friday rush. But did we really spend that much cash?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Staff Picks: Our Favorite Video Podcasts   What's the future of music? Who invented the copier? Where should you go before you die, and why do some folks believe there's an oil conspiracy afoot? Check out our favorite video podcasts to learn more about everything from Hokkaido to the LifeStraw.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 How McCarthyism Worked   On Nov. 25, 1947, a group of producers, directors and screenwriters known as the "Hollywood Ten" found themselves blacklisted and out of work after refusing to testify at Joseph McCarthy's Committee on Un-American Activities. What was behind McCarthy's Hollywood hunt for communists?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
	 
 
		 
	 
 
	 
	 
  
	 
		 
			 
	 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 How quickly could you change a tire?   Changing a tire can be tricky if you don't know what you're doing. How knowledgeable are you when it comes to changing a tire? Take this quiz and find out!  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Everyday Science: Volcano Quiz   Fiery explosions, boiling lava, hot ash spewing everywhere -- total disaster is probably the first thing that comes to mind when you think "volcano." And, yes, that is certainly a possibility. But do you know whatÕs really going on when a volcano erupts?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Tech Test: Is your computer secure?   Computers can make life easier, but they also can put your private information at risk. Find out how much you know -- or don't know -- about computer security by taking our quiz.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Stuff You Should Know's Mafia Movie Quiz   Stuff You Should Know's mafia episode was so rich with movie references we decided to cook up a quiz. Test your knowledge of cement shoes and tommy guns.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Quiz: Know your Frankenstein pop culture?   Frankenstein's monster is all up in your pop culture, fighting werewolves and letting you know what he thinks about fire (it's bad). So grab a torch, storm the walls of this quiz, and see if you have what it takes to come out the victor.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Tech Talk: RAM Quiz   How much RAM is in your computer? Do you need more? And if you do, how do you know? Take the quiz to learn everything there is to know about RAM.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Could you build your own house?   As the saying goes, home is where the heart is. But just how does one go about building a home in the first place? Find out some fun facts about this detailed process by taking the quiz.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Stuff You Should Know's Spam Quiz   If you've ever eaten food, then there's a chance you might have tried Spam. We're not talking about the e-mail version. We're talking canned meat. Take our Spam quiz to see where you rate on canned pork knowledge.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 What are the best- and worst-paying jobs?   It's pretty clear that a doctor makes more money than a fast food worker. But does a surgeon bring home more bucks than an anesthesiologist? Test your knowledge with the ultimate best- and worst-paying jobs quiz.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Internet Myth, Internet Truth   From Big Brother security myths to the fabrication of what the Internet actually is, cyberspace is full of fictions of its own.  Can you call a myth's bluff?  Test your knowledge on what's real and what's not in the globe's largest electronic world.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 The Ultimate Serial Killer Quiz   The topic of murder stirs up fear in almost any context, and serial killing tends to multiply that fear to the tenth degree. Test your knowledge with this serial killer quiz.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Who said it: Darth Vader or Obi-Wan Kenobi?   Squared off on opposite sides of the Force, it might seem like Darth Vader and Obi-Wan Kenobi have nothing in common. One is tall, dark and deadly, and the other's, well, not.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 The Ultimate Hydraulic Machines Quiz   Hydraulic equipment is amazing in its strength and agility. From common backyard machines to the huge machines you see on construction sites, hydraulics make quick work of even the most difficult tasks. How much do you know about hydraulic machines?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Tech Talk: Internet Cookie Quiz   Right now, your computer has an array of tiny files that are keeping tabs on you. Test your knowledge of Internet cookies, one the most misunderstood aspects of the Internet.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Stranded: Can you survive?   Being stranded in the wilderness may make for a good movie, but in reality, it's a harrowing experience. Staying alive may require you to build a shelter, start a fire and even eat bugs for nourishment. Do you have what it takes to survive this quiz?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Game On: Football Quiz   Grab your pigskin: It's time for football trivia. We don't mean winningest coaches, Heisman winners or team mascots, but rather the nitty-gritty of the gridiron. How does the QB make that ball spiral? Wouldn't "handball" make a better name than "football"? Pad up and get on the field ... the football quiz field, that is.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Fact or Fiction: The World's Most Expensive Bathroom Fixtures   Sure, a bubble bath can make your bathroom feel luxurious. But wouldn't an HDTV make it even nicer? Take a look at some of the most expensive and outrageous bathroom fixtures -- can you tell fact from fiction?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Fact or Fiction: Hollywood vs. History   It's time to step into the time machine and travel back through history. Of course, if you hope to survive, you're going to want to separate what you actually learned in history class from all the historical inaccuracies in the movies.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Alpha, Beta or Gamma? It's the Nuclear Radiation Quiz   We live in a radioactive world, and we're not just talking about the times when a nuclear plant is melting down and scaring the heck out of us. How much do you know about the ABGs (or alphas, betas and gammas) of nuclear radiation?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Stuff You Should Know's Nicotine Quiz   If you're an American and you're reading this, then there's about a 30 percent chance you're addicted to nicotine. If you listened to this podcast, then you should have no problem scoring well.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
	 
 
		 
	 
 
	 
	 
  
	 
		 
			 
	 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 10 Scientists Who Were Their Own Guinea Pigs   People donate their bodies to science all the time, usually after death. Here, we highlight 10 scientists who experimented on themselves while they were still alive.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 10 Historically Inaccurate Movies   These films look like blooper reels when you compare them to history books. From anachronisms to flat-out lies, creative license reigns in this list.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Top 10 Moments in Space Bathroom History   When you think about space travel, you don't usually take time to wonder how astronauts go to the bathroom. However, the annals of aeronautic history abound with tales of space bathroom mishaps. Here are 10 of our favorites.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 10 Costly Food Recalls   Food is something we can't live without. But sometimes instead of nourishing our bodies, it can actually kill us. And it's no cheap (or easy) task to get that food off the market.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 10 Longest-running TV Shows   Some TV shows are lucky to stick around for a season -- these did that and then some. What made them the longest-running dramas and comedies in television history?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Top 10 Survival Tools   Let's say your vacation tour group ditches you in the outback. Or your car slips off an icy road in the middle of nowhere. Will you have the tools to save your life?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 10 Most Expensive Classic Cars   Gentlemen, start your checkbooks! These classic cars each have a history all their own and a price tag to blow your mind. The starting point is $6.9 million if you want one of these beauties parked in your garage.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Top 10 Improvements in Engine Design   For more than 150 years, automotive engineers have been continually working on ways to improve the internal combustion engine. What are some of the biggest improvements theyÕve made?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 10 Off-the-wall iPhone Apps   There are thousands of apps for the iPhone, and they let you do everything from play games to keep up with stock prices. Some of them are real head-scratchers, though. Do you use any of these weird apps?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 5 Post-shuttle NASA Programs   By the time space shuttle Atlantis touched down after its final voyage in July 2011, a major shift in strategy for space exploration was already under way. What are NASA's newest programs?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 The Top 10 Game-changing Military Technologies   These 10 technologies changed war and the course of history as we know it. Some of these battlefield innovations, like adding grooves to gun barrels, are surprisingly simple. So what else made our list?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 10 of the WorldÕs Most Infamous Cults   Maybe you've heard about Kool Aid or the Family Jams -- but what do you really know about some of the world's most infamous cults?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 10 Remarkable Exoplanets   There's a lot more out there than our measly solar system, and astronomers are becoming more adept at finding those worlds all the time. Here are 10 of their coolest discoveries.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Top 10 Most Popular Infomercials   Who can forget all of the famous pitch lines, gizmos and unintentional hilarity packed into late-night paid programming? Infomercials are showy, earnest and often outright deceptive. What are 10 of the best?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Top 10 Mind-bending Strategy Games   Some of the best strategy games -- those that require thinking rather than luck or physical ability -- have been around for centuries, while others have been released in the past decade. Which ones stand out from the pack?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 10 High-paying Dirty Jobs   These jobs probably weren't on your list of what you wanted to be when you grew up. But now that you're in the rat race, you may wonder if a dirty job is more profitable than your desk jockey career.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 10 Tips for Staying on Budget   You have a big expense coming up. You need a better car or home, or you want to go back to college. What do you do? Borrow, borrow, borrow -- right? Well, maybe not. Working off of a budget just may save your sanity -- and credit.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 10 Most Stressful Jobs in America   Unemployment can cause stress, but some jobs are stressful, too. The next time you find yourself sweating over some deadline, remember that some people get paid to risk their lives -- or save the lives of others -- every single day.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Top 10 Appliances We Can't Live Without   In a pinch, you could probably do without most of the appliances in your home -- but would you want to? Life would certainly be different without these 10.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 5 Events Guaranteed to Crash Twitter   When a bunch of Twitter geeks get excited about the same thing at the same time, their chatter can crash the whole service. And that's when the dreaded Fail Whale appears.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
	 
 
		 
	 
 
	 
	 
  
	 
		 
			 Social Stuff from the HowStuffWorks writers and editors 

  all shows  | filter by show (click a show below) 

 
	  
	 
		 
			 
						 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
						 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
						 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
						 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
						 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
							  
						 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
						 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
						 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
						 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
						 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
							  
						 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
						 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
						 
		 
	 
	  
 
		 
		 
			 
	 All 
	 Facebook 
	 Twitter 
	 Chat 
 
  
  
		 
	 
 
	 
	 
  
	 
		 
			 
	 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Arctic Tri Peaks Solitaire   In this version of the classic solitaire game, you play through a mountain of cards, eliminating them as you go.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Sudoku Ultra   Other sudoku games will let you use cheats, either with or without a penalty. But this game is a different story: one with no cheats!  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Mahjongg Dimensions   Play this classic game in 3-D! Just when you think you're stuck, you can rotate the cube to reveal more matches to clear. Mahjongg Dimensions is all about creativity, speed and 3-D memory.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Bookworm   Link letters together to make words. Longer words are worth more points! How high can you score?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Bike Build Game   If you've ever wanted to build a bike from scratch, you're not alone. Try your hand at piecing together this motorcycle in the Bike Build Game. Once you have everything in place, you can see the real thing!  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Podcast Word Search   Are you the ultimate HowStuffWorks podcast fan? Prove it in this word search game with 10 exciting levels, numerous categories and backgrounds inspired by the podcasts.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Monkey Gems   BenBen the monkey needs your help! It looks like he got himself in some trouble with the local snakes by stealing their rattles. Help him fend off the colorful reptiles one by one in this fun and exciting match-making adventure! With three fantastic chapters, gorgeous visuals and engaging sound, Monkey Gems is one game you'll want to play over and over again!  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Spliterature   Watch out for puns, twists, turns, jokes and general trickery as you try to score as many points as you can in this word game.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Alu's Revenge   Alu's Revenge serves up solid gameplay, where stacked stones continue to fall as you use your quick wits and speedy strategy to open the tomb and reveal the jewels inside.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Word Grid   Do you consider yourself a master wordsmith? A superior speller? A vocabulary virtuoso? If you answered "yes" to any of those questions, then Word Grid is the game for you.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Zuma's Revenge!ª   Take a shot at the all-new excitement of Zuma's Revenge!ª, the smashing sequel to one of the biggest hits of all time!  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Carniball   An amusement park classic comes to your desktop. Get some ball-tossing target practice without leaving your chair.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Kritter Krawler   If you're in the mood for a grid-filling game, look no further. You'll find yourself running from mechanical monstrosities as you try to fill in as much of the game board as you can. Keep an eye out for power-ups while you're playing to give yourself a nice boost of speed to help you clear the board even faster!  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Letters from Nowhere   Visit an old cemetery, a provincial town and other unlikely locations to discover more of these strange letters. With puzzling mini-games, four special help tools and an extra quest to unlock a second mode, you'll be thrilled for hours playing Letters from Nowhere.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Roads of Rome 2   Travel through strange new environments, overcome natural disasters, and help appease the gods and their demands. If you succeed, Caesar will be grateful and the gods are sure to smile down on the citizens of Rome.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Addiction Solitaire   Find out why this speedy variant of a classic card game is called "Addiction Solitaire."  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Mystery of Mortlake Mansionª   Numerous hours of challenging discoveries await you in 34 beautiful scenes, 30 mini-games and a host of tricky puzzles.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Super TextTwist   Figure out the combination with the most letters and move to the next level. A classic word scramble for a digital world. Take a break and exercise your brain all at once!  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Crossword: Master   Are you ready to master a classic crossword challenge? Our online crossword puzzle game is an excellent way to spend some free time building your vocabulary and problem-solving skills, as well as a great way to keep your mind quick and flexible.  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
		 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Mine-Finder   The goal of Mine-Finder is to find where all the mines are within a specific field of squares. To help you, the game shows a number in a square which tells you how many mines there are adjacent to that square. Can you work out where the mines are without detonating any of them?  
	 
		  
	 
	 
		
	 
	 
		
 
       
  
	 
 
	 
 
		 
	 
 
		 
	 
 
	 
 
		 
	 
 

 
	 
		  
	 
		 
						 poll: what do you think? 
		 
		 
			 
	 How do you accomplish the bulk of your holiday shopping? 
	 
	 
	 
	 
		   Online  		   In person  		   By catalog  	 
	  
 
		 
	 
 
	 
	 
		  
	 
		 
						 puzzles 
		 
		 
			 
	 
		 
			 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Electronics 	 
 
			 
			 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Adventure 	 
 
			 
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Business and Money Puzzles 	 
 
			 
			 
 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 Geography 	 
 
			 
		 
	 
 
		 
	 
 
 
					
	 
 
				 
				 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
	 
		 
			 
	 more quizzes È 
 
			 quiz of the day 
		 
		 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 TAKE THE CHALLENGE 
 Travel the World: Machu Picchu 
 Average: 5 points | 10 Questions 

	 
 
 While there is some controversy concerning which modern foreigner first stumbled across Machu Picchu, most accounts credit Hiram Bingham. What year did he find Machu Picchu, soon after bringing it to the world's attention? 
 
	 
		 
		 1827 
	 
	 
		 
		 1898 
	 
	 
		 
		 1911 
	 
 
		 
	 
 
  
	 
		 
						 check out our shows 
		 
		 
			 
	 
					 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
					 
					 
							 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
			 
 
	 
 
		 
	 
 
  
	 
		 
						 image of the day 
		 
		 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
		   What's this?  	 
 
		 
	 
 
  
	 
		 
			 
	
 
			 all about strategy games 
		 
		 
			 
	 
					  
			
						  
			
						  
			
						  
			
				 
	  
	  
 
		 
	 
 
	
  
	 
		 
						 illustration of the day 
		 
		 
			 
	 
		
			 
	 
		 from  What is the gray goo nightmare?  	 
 
		 
	 
 
  
	 
		 
						 stuff of the day 
		 
		 
			 
	 
		 
			 
				Did you know: Clytemnestra (kly tuhm NEHS truh) was a princess in Greek mythology. She married Agamemnon, king of Mycenae, and her sister Helen married his brother Menelaus.				 Another random fact 
			 
		 
		 
			 
				ÒSmall things amuse small minds.Ó
				 Who said it? 
			 
		 
	 
 		 
	 
 
				 
			 
			 
 
 
 
 
  
	 
		 
			 
	
		
			
	 
		  Join the StuffNation and get your daily Wake-Up Call Newsletter.   One idea every day to make you smarter. Kickstart your brain and go.  
                         
                             
                                   
                             
                            
                         	 
 
		 
		 
			 
	 
		 
			 HOWSTUFFWORKS 
			 
				  Adventure  
				  Auto  
				  Culture  
				  Entertainment  
				  Health  
				  Home & Garden  
				  Lifestyle  
				  Money  
				  Science  
				  Tech  
			 
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 MORE STUFF 
			 
				  Blogs  
				  Games  
				  HSW Tools  
				  RSS  
				  Maps  
				  Podcasts  
				  Quizzes  
				  Newsletters  
				  Video  
			 
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 OUR WEBSITES 
			 
				  Animal Planet  
				  Consumer Guide Auto  
				  Consumer Guide Products  
				  Discovery Channel  
				  Discovery Fit & Health  
				  HSW Brazil  
				  HSW China   
				  Investigation Discovery  
				  Oprah Winfrey Network  
				  Planet Green  
				  Science Channel  
				  TLC  
				  Discovery Education  
				  Store  
			 
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 CUSTOMER SERVICE 
			 
				  Advertising  
				  Contact Us  
				  Help  
			 
			 CORPORATE 
			 
				  About Us  
				  Careers @ Discovery  
				  Privacy Policy  
				  Visitor Agreement  
			 
		 
	 
	 
		 
			 TAKE US WITH YOU 
			 
				  
				  
				  
			 
			 FOLLOW US 
			 
				  
				  
				  
			 
		 
	 
 
		 
	 
 
 © 1998-2011 HowStuffWorks, Inc 
			 
Ê