Privacy Policy 
   
 
 
 
   
 
    
  

 

 
  
   
    
     
       

                     Home  
  Login  
  Register  
  About Golfnews  
                 
         
           
  
   
  Search this site:  
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
         

                    Golf News  
                
        
       
    
               
                       All     Tours     Instruction     Equipment     Courses     Travel     Other             
         
                
                

             
            
    
     
      
       
         
                             
        
                
                         
    Privacy Policy  
  
    
    
   
     
 This privacy statement covers the web site  www.Golfnews.com . Golfnews.com has created this Privacy Statement (Policy) in order to demonstrate our commitment to our user's privacy. 
 As part of the normal operation of our services we collect and, in some cases, disclose information about you. This Privacy Policy describes the information we collect about you and what may happen to that information. 
 Information Collection and Use 
 Golfnews.com is the sole owner of the information collected on  www.Golfnews.com . Golfnews.com collects information from our users at several different points on our web site. 
 Information Collection 
 In order to use the Golfnews.com web site, you must first register. During registration a user is required to give profile and billing information. 
 Profile information includes descriptive information about your self such as Gender, Age, Description, Golf Ability, Physical Description, a photo of yourself, etc. You will also be required to select a User Name and Password to use our site. 
 Billing Information includes your Email Address, Billing Name and Address as well as your Payment Information. 
 Information Use 
 Our primary goal in collecting profile information is to provide you with an efficient and customized experience. This allows us to provide services and features that most likely meet your needs and to customize our service to make your experience easier. Your profile is available for other members to view on the Site. Members' profiles include information helpful in determining matches. Your viewable profile does not include any identifying information about you, except the Username you chose upon registering and your photograph. 
 We do not disclose your email address nor do we sell it or make it available to any third party other than as outlined in more detail in this Privacy Policy. 
 Cookies and Log Files 
 We automatically track certain information based upon your behavior on our site using cookies and other devices. We use this information for internal research of our members' demographics, interests, and behavior to better understand and serve you and our user community. This information includes the URL that you just came from (whether this URL is on our site or not). Which URL you next go to (whether this URL is on our site or not), what browser you are using, and your IP address. 
 We use data collection devices such as "cookies" on certain pages of our site. "Cookies" are small files placed on your hard drive that assist us in providing customized services. We also offer certain features that are only available through the use of a "cookie". Cookies can also help us provide information that is targeted to your interests. Most cookies are "session cookies", meaning that they are automatically deleted from your hard drive at the end of a session. You are always free to decline our cookies if your browser permits. 
 Our use of your information 
 What We Do With Personally Identifiable Data 
 Personally identifiable information you provide may be used to: 
 Send you something you've requested, such as email newsletter 
 Send you information from Third Door Media that we think you'll be interested in 
 Send you information from our advertisers 
 Target advertising based on your interests, if you've provided those Sharing Your Information With Advertisers, Sponsors & Others Your personally identifiable information will only be shared with other companies when: 
 We have asked for and you have given your consent to share the information with advertisers, exhibitors and sponsors for a specific service. 
 We need to provide it to other companies in order to deliver the services you want from us, such as having an email list sent out or to process your event order. In these cases, the information is used only for the specific service you wanted from us. 
 Links 
 Golfnews.com contains links to other web sites. This document only addresses the use and disclosure of information Golfnews.com collects from you. To the extent that you disclose your information to other parties, whether they are on our Site or on other sites throughout the Internet, different privacy rules may apply. To the extent that we use third party advertisers, they adhere to their own privacy policies. 
 Business Transitions 
 In the event Golfnews.com goes through a business transition, such as a merger, being acquired by another company, or selling a portion of its assets, users' personal information will, in most instances, be part of the assets transferred. Users will be notified via a prominent notice on our Web site for 30 days prior to a change of ownership or control of their personal information. If as a result of the business transition, the users' personally identifiable information will be used in a manner different from that stated at the time of collection they will be given choice consistent with our notification of changes section. 
 Security 
 Golfnews.com uses industry standard practices to safeguard the confidentiality of your personal identifiable information, including Secure Socket Layers. Golfnews.com treats data as an asset that must be protected against loss and unauthorized access. We employ many different security techniques to protect such data from unauthorized access by others inside and outside the company. 
 Notification of Changes 
 We may change this Privacy Policy from time to time based on your comments and our need to accurately reflect our data collection and disclosure practices. All changes to this policy are effective after we provide you with at least thirty (30) days' notice of changes by sending email to members. We provide you with thirty (30) days' notice to allow you the opportunity to notify Golfnews.com if you do not agree to such changes. 
 A Special Note About Minors 
 Children are not eligible to use our services, and we ask that minors (under the age of 14) do not submit any personal information to us. If you are a minor, you can use this service only in conjunction with your parents or guardians. 
 Contact Information 
 If users have any questions or suggestions regarding our privacy policy, please  Contact Us . 
        

  
 
        
         
             
       Golf Scores 
     
     
  PGA  
  Nationwide  
  Champ  
  LPGA  
  Euro  
 
   
 
 
       Recent comments 
     
        This rocks :)  2 years 29 weeks ago 
     
 
 
       Tags 
     
     Alex Cejka  
 Augusta National  
 Daniel Vancsik  
 Eduardo Romero  
 Henrik Stenson  
 Italian Open  
 John Daly  
 Rory McIlroy  
 Sawgrass  
 THE PLAYERS Championship  
 Tiger Woods  
 US Masters  
  more tags     
 
         
      

     
         
     
       Feed aggregator  
  Creative Commons  
  Privacy Policy  
  Terms of Service  
  Contact Us  
    
 
        © 2011 GolfNews. All rights reserved.