Tom Watson's Instructional Double DVD - Lessons of a Lifetime 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  Home  
   Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers  
  Book Tee Times  
  Golf Breaks & Holidays  
  Travel Features  
  Golf Equipment  
  Golf Shop  
  Golf Tips &  Instruction  
  Long Game  -  Short Game  
  Putting  -  Grip & Set Up   
  Training & Practice  
  The Mental Game  
  Swing Sequences  
  One Minute Tips  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Services Directory  
  Classified Ads  -  Jobs  
  Amateur Golf  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Asian Golf  
  Tour Rankings  
  Tournaments  
  Golf News Archive  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      



  
 	 
 
  
    
  Golf Tips & Instruction   
  Tom Watson DVD   
  Christmas Gift Ideas  
  
 
 
  
 'Lessons of a Lifetime' with Tom Watson - instruction 
 
   
     
        
           
             SPECIAL OFFER: Golf Today is offering Tom Watson's double DVD set 'Lessons of a Lifetime' for only £17.99 - that's a saving of £12 on the recommended retail - with free postage and packing. Click  here  to purchase your copy now!  
           
             
   
 
  from one of golf's greats 
 Lessons of a Lifetime is the ultimate learning experience, containing 163 minutes of golf instruction in a double DVD set, accompanied by a comprehensive booklet of 44 lessons. It covers all facets of the game - from the grip to full shots, to chipping, putting and the secret of Tom’s timeless swing, plus speciality shots including those required in strong wind conditions. 
 
 
    
    
    
 
 
 Lessons of a Lifetime will help golfers of all levels improve their game. As Tom explains: “It’s very important that golfers - whether they are beginners or have played for 50 years - learn and understand the fundamentals. These are the building blocks every golfer needs to have in order to play up to their potential but, more importantly, to have fun.” 
 From playing in the wind, to hooking and slicing, to fearless putting, Tom breaks each element down in an easy-to-understand manner. Each tip and technique is presented by Tom himself - as though he were standing next to you on the tee or the green. At  close on three hours, it's the cheapest and most comprehensive set of golf lessons you'll ever have! 
 
  CONTENTS OF 'LESSONS OF A LIFETIME'  
 
 
Disc One 
 
1. Definition of Terms 
2. The Grip 
3. Grip Pressure 
4. The Setup 
5. Aim & Alignment 
6. Two Methods of Aiming 
7. Ball Position 
8. "The Secret" 
9. Find Your Waggle 
10. The Takeaway 
11. The Back Swing 
12. The Back Swing, A Closer Look 
13. Transition & Down Swing 
14. Impact 
15. Follow Through to Finish 
16. Rhythm 
17. The Hook 
18. The Slice 
19. Low (or Punch) Shot 
20. High Shot 
21. Uneven Lies 
22. Adding Distance 
 
Disc Two 
 
23. Recreating "The Shot" 
24. Basic Chip Shot 
25. Spot Method Drill 
26. More About Chipping 
27. The High/Soft Lob 
28. Chipping Out of Heavy Rough 
29. Chipping: Uneven Lies 
30. The Basic Bunker Shot 
31. Bunker Play: Buried Lie 
32. Uphill Bunker Shot 
33. Downhill Bunker Shot 
34. Long Bunker Shot 
35. Fairway Bunker Shot 
36. Playing With Hybrids 
37. Full Swing in Review 
38. Putting 
39. Putting Drill 
40. How to Putt Under Pressure 
41. Playing in the Wind: Putting 
42. Playing in the Wind: Full Shots 
43. How Can I Stop Slicing the Ball? 
44. How Can I Stop Hooking the Ball? 
45. Bruce Edwards Tribute 
46. Behind the Scenes 
 
 

 Lessons of a Lifetime is directed by Terry Jastrow, winner of seven Emmy Awards who has produced and directed coverage of 68 of golf's major championships. 
 Encyclopaedic in its skill and strategy coverage, Lessons of a Lifetime is a perfect gift and a must-have for beginners as well as experienced golfers who want to step up their game. All this from the man who so nearly won a sixth Open Championship at the age of 59, and who made the cut in the 2010 US Open at Pebble Beach, scene of his spectacular victory 28 years earlier, when he chipped in from the rough at the 17th in the final round to deny Jack Nicklaus the title. And you can enjoy again a clip of that famous shot, as it leads off Disc Two and into Tom's advice on pitching, chipping and bunker play around the greens... 
 A portion of the proceeds from all sales of the DVD set will be contributed to the Bruce Edwards Foundation for Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Research.  Click here  to buy your copy now, at our special price of only £17.99 with free p&p.  
 You can also find out more about Tom's game, why he has never before put his swing thoughts on record and how he approaches golf in his 60's in the  Golf Today exclusive interview with Tom Watson  here .  
    
  
 
  
 
  AN INTERVIEW WITH TOM WATSON  
 
During Tom's recent visit to the UK to play in The Open and Senior Open Championships, Golf Today publisher Stuart Barber - who has know him since the 1980s - was granted an exclusive interview. 
Read fascinating insights into Tom's ageless swing, his practice routine, why  he waited so long to release an instructional DVD and how he approaches golf in his 60's  here . 
  
 

      




  
  
 
 INSTRUCTION FEATURES   
 
   Charl Schwartzel Swing Sequence   
 
   Take a tip from me  
 
    Lee Westwood - The Ultimate Driver   
 
    Tiger Woods Swing Sequence   
 
    Tick Tock - Dial in wedges   
 

   Chi Power Golf   
 





















 
  
  
 
 
 
  Getting Started in Golf   
12 simple lessons for juniors just starting out in the game, with helpful information for parents. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  World Golf Tour   
Continues to grow ever more popular, surpassing over 100 million online rounds played.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Equipment 2011   
What's new, refined & innovative for the coming year a full report from Golf Europe.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Motoring 
  Mercedes-Benz C63 AMG Coupe - the world’s greatest road-going V8? 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  A Mixed Bag   
A look at the valuations of various items of golf ephemora that readers own.  
  
    
 
 

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
  
 
  Classified Ads - see more here...  
  

   

 
   
 
 

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these?   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Classifieds   -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us