Leaderboard Golf wraps up Christmas 
 

  
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

      

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 Home  
 
 
 Amateur News   
  Archive  
  Charity Golf Days  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers   
  Book Tee Times   
  Golf Breaks & Holidays   
  Travel Features   
  Equipment  -  Shop  
  Instruction  
  Services Directory  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Classified Ads  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  




 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      


  
 	 
 
  
    
  Amateur Golf  
  2011  
  
 
 
  
 
   
      
   
  Ê  
 Leaderboard Golf wraps up Christmas  
  17th Novemeber 2011  
 Finding the right Christmas gift can prove to be a real challenge, but this year Leaderboard Golf has the perfect solution for all golf enthusiasts.  
 Two of Leaderboard Golf courses, The Oxfordshire and Dale Hill, have teamed up with a renowned landscape photographer, John Mundy, to produce some truly stunning panoramic scenes of their championship courses. Any golf lover will be drawn to these limited edition prints of their favourite Leaderboard course, and with a selection of four images available there is a chance of one even being their favourite hole.  
 The Oxfordshire   
   
      
   
 
 As the sun rises on the fifth and the eight holes, these striking images from The Oxfordshire Golf Club in Thame emphasise the peaceful and sweeping country side that surrounds the course. Set at the foot of the Chiltern Hills , The Oxfordshire's unusual parkland style and contoured holes are highlighted wonderfully in these eye-catching photographs.  
 Dale Hill  
 
   
      
   
 
 The images of Dale Hill's 6512-yard Ian Woosnam designed course show off the sixth and sixteenth to their very best, highlighting what Woosnam describes as the course's ?perfect balance ? tough enough for the pros and easy enough for the amatuers?. Recapture the experience of the spectacular challenges on one of the South East's foremost golf courses with one of these wonderful photographs, which make the most of the stunning views across the Sussex Weald.  
 Prints are available to purchase, professionally mounted or framed, from  www.golfphotostore.co.uk   and are sure to make an interesting and unique gift this festive season. Prices start at £78.70 for a stand alone print, or choose to have it framed in one of three styles for just £150.50. Within 14 days from the initial order the perfect gift will arrive at the door (framed and mounted pictures within 28 days). For orders to arrive in time for Christmas they need to be placed by Friday 9 th December 2011 (framed and mounted pictures by Friday 25 th November 2011).   Prices start at £78.70 for a standalone print, and £150.50 for mounted and framed prints 
   
  Other courses featured on  www.golfphotostore.co.uk   include Sunningdale, Guildford , and Camberley Heath Golf Club  
 For more information on Leaderboard Golf please contact Emma Sundin at Deliberate PR: 
   emma@deliberate-pr.com   / 020 7792 9073 / 07792 072 453  
  
   
 
  
 
   LATEST AMATEUR NEWS   
 

  France lays down challenge to UK golfers at Golf du Medoc    
 
  Ireland to host European Amateur Championship in 2012   
 
  Leaderboard Golf wraps up Christmas    
 
  Overwhelming support for EGU and EWGA merger   
 
  R&A rule changes aid "hole in one" prizes   
 
  Will they -Won't they - merge?    
 
  Hassle free Festive Breaks at Dartmouth   
 


  Club news from around the country   
 
 

      

 
 
 
 AMATEUR GOLF FEATURES   
 
  Huge savings on Festive gift ideas!   
 
  Calendar of Events, Charity Days, Pro-Ams...   
 
  Directory of Worldwide Golf Unions & Associations   
 
  News from Golf Clubs all around the country   
 
  Analyse your game and improve your scores   
 
  A Golfing A to Z   
 
 

   LATEST GB&I GOLF UNION NEWS   
 




  New caps in Seniors Euro Championships   
 
  Kelly Tidy edges ahead in girls championship   
 
  Georgia Hall leads in U13 Championship    
 
  Paisley in European Cup team   
 
  Rachel Jennings loses Final of Welsh Strokeplay Championship    
 
  Scottish women?s open strokeplay championship   
 

 
 
 
  Charity Golf Days    
Our calendar, plus news of people and events raising money for good causes through golf.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Four Nations  
Matchplay event offers 'Ryder Cup' for club golfers. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Club News   
What's happening in clubs all around the country. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Nat'l County Card   
Golf Clubs - promote yourselves free of charge in 2009! 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golfing A-Z   
Stableford? Condor? Hole in One records? You'll find it all here. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us