About Golf Today: Key Information and statistics, site usage and demographics 
  
  
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

      

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  Home  
   Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers  
  Book Tee Times  
  Golf Breaks & Holidays  
  Travel Features  
  Golf Equipment  
  Golf Shop  
  Golf Tips &  Instruction  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Services Directory  
  Classified Ads  -  Jobs  
  Amateur Golf  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Asian Golf  
  Tour Rankings  
  Tournaments  
  Golf News Archive  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      


  
 	 
 
  
    
  About Us  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
     
    A powerful tool to reach golfers   
   
     Online since 1996, Golf Today now reaches some 4 million UK golfers a year, with another 2 million across the world. In all,  216 countries! 
      Unrivalled depth and breadth of content make Golf Today  the web's  most comprehensive news and information source for golfers. 
   
 
 
 
  

 KEY INFORMATION ABOUT GOLF TODAY 
 
 
• Online since November 1996 
• Europe's premier online golf magazine and information source 
• Over 6 million visitors per annum and more than 20 million page views 
• The world's most comprehensive and permanently updated Course Guide  
• More than  65,000 pages of content, archived and searchable from every page, including in depth news and tournament coverage,  golf equipment news and reviews, travel information and features and an extensive golf tuition section, as well as other wide-ranging information for both golfers and golf fans 
• Consistently high ranking on all major search engines for golf-related enquiries 
• Heavily used by travelling golfers to find a new course, a golf holiday, tee-times and bargain green fee deals 
• Widely consulted by journalists and golfers as a work of reference
 
  
  
  
 SITE TRAFFIC 
  
  
  
  
  
 SITE USAGE 
  
  
  
  
  
 SITE DEMOGRAPHICS (click the heading for more details) 
  
•  Age : 86% of visitors are aged between 18-60 
•  Sex : 88% of readers are male 
•  Income : 48% of readers earn over £30k a year 
•  Education : 56% have a degree or higher qualification 
•  Internet usage : 83% go online every day 
•  Visit frequency  : 56% visit Golf Today at least once a week 
•  Internet connection : 86% have broadband 
•  Online purchasing : 95% have bought online and would do again 
  
    
  
    
  
    
  
    
  
    
  
    
  
    
  
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
 Our thanks to  Marriott Hotels  for the  magnificent image of the Forest of Arden used in the masthead of these pages.  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 


      



  
  
  
 
 
 
  Charity Golf Days    
Our calendar, plus news of people and events raising money for good causes through golf.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Motoring 
  Mercedes-Benz C63 AMG Coupe - the
world’s greatest road-going V8? 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  A Mixed Bag   
A look at the valuations of various items of golf ephemora that readers own.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Equipment 2011   
What's new, refined & innovative for the coming year a full report from Golf Europe.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  World Golf Tour    
Continues to grow ever more popular, surpassing over 100 million online rounds played.  
  
    
 
 

 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
  
 
  Classified Ads - see more here...  
  

   

 
   
 
 

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these?   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Classifieds   -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us