ISGA Schools Cup - Wellington College Retain the Trophy 
 

  
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

      

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 Home  
 
 
 Amateur News   
  Archive  
  Charity Golf Days  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers   
  Book Tee Times   
  Golf Breaks & Holidays   
  Travel Features   
  Equipment  -  Shop  
  Instruction  
  Services Directory  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Classified Ads  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  




 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      


  
 	 
 
  
    
  Amateur Golf  
  2011  
  
 
 
  
 ISGA Schools Cup - Wellington College Retain the Trophy 
  20th October 2011  
 24 School teams took part in this years Schools Cup held at the Seve Ballesteros course The Shire London  from as far away as Jersey and the west country. 
 
   
      
   
   
      The victorious Wellington Team - Cameron Farmer, Will Cooper, Alex Peters and Iain Henderson (Teacher)   
   
 
     The wind was a factor in the competition as team scores showed. ÊWith 14 holes where water comes into play this was a serious test for the school players.  The teams made up of Teacher and 3 pupils has been a favourite format for the last few years of the Schools Cup. Favourites Wellington eventually came in 13 shots ahead of Worksop to win the trophy and a golf simulator for their school.  
 New Hall won the nett trophy for the first time with St Catherines girls only 1 shot behind.ÊScores on an individual level proved the difficulty of the harsh conditions and set up of the course with Cameron Farmer (Wellington) taking the best boys gross with a 73 and Sophie Godley (Worksop) going away with the girls prize after an impressive 74. 
 
   
      
   
   
      Individual Girls winner Sophie Godley (Worksop)         
   
 
 Yet again the Seve Ballesteros course showed its might as one of the best risk and reward courses in the country?..    SGA have announced the venue for their 2012 national finals to be held at the Carnoustie Links, venue of various Majors. Carnoustie is considered by many to be one of the finest golf courses in the U.K and is rated as one of the top courses in the world.  
  The ISGA is authorised by the English Golf Union & the English Women's Golf Association to run qualifying events   full results on Ê  www.isga.co.uk   
   
  
 
   LATEST AMATEUR NEWS   
 

  France lays down challenge to UK golfers at Golf du Medoc    
 
  Ireland to host European Amateur Championship in 2012   
 
  Leaderboard Golf wraps up Christmas    
 
  Overwhelming support for EGU and EWGA merger   
 
  R&A rule changes aid "hole in one" prizes   
 
  Will they -Won't they - merge?    
 
  Hassle free Festive Breaks at Dartmouth   
 


  Club news from around the country   
 
 

      

 
 
 
 AMATEUR GOLF FEATURES   
 
  Huge savings on Festive gift ideas!   
 
  Calendar of Events, Charity Days, Pro-Ams...   
 
  Directory of Worldwide Golf Unions & Associations   
 
  News from Golf Clubs all around the country   
 
  Analyse your game and improve your scores   
 
  A Golfing A to Z   
 
 

   LATEST GB&I GOLF UNION NEWS   
 




  New caps in Seniors Euro Championships   
 
  Kelly Tidy edges ahead in girls championship   
 
  Georgia Hall leads in U13 Championship    
 
  Paisley in European Cup team   
 
  Rachel Jennings loses Final of Welsh Strokeplay Championship    
 
  Scottish women?s open strokeplay championship   
 

 
 
 
  Charity Golf Days    
Our calendar, plus news of people and events raising money for good causes through golf.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Four Nations  
Matchplay event offers 'Ryder Cup' for club golfers. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Club News   
What's happening in clubs all around the country. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Nat'l County Card   
Golf Clubs - promote yourselves free of charge in 2009! 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golfing A-Z   
Stableford? Condor? Hole in One records? You'll find it all here. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us