Success for UK players in Grand Final  
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   About Us    Contact Us    Advertise   Newsletter    
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
     

      

 
   
 
  
 
 
      
 
  


 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Home  
 
 
 Amateur News  
 
  Archive  
 
 Course Guide 
 
 
 2 For 1 Golf  
 
 
 Book Tee Times  
 
 
 Golf Breaks  
 
 Travel Features  
 
 
 Shop  |  Equipment 
 
 
 Tuition  
 

 
  Industry Guide  
 
 
 Golf Property  
 
 
 Score Tracker  
 
 Classified Ads  





 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  

      

 
  Golf Today  >  Amateur Golf  >  2009  > News, Features & Events 
    
 
 
 
  
 
   
 

      


 
 

   LATEST GB&I GOLF UNION NEWS   
 




  New caps in Seniors Euro Championships   
 
  Kelly Tidy edges ahead in girls championship   
 
  Georgia Hall leads in U13 Championship    
 
  Paisley in European Cup team   
 
  Rachel Jennings loses Final of Welsh Strokeplay Championship    
 
  Scottish women?s open strokeplay championship   
 

 
   LATEST AMATEUR NEWS   
 

  France lays down challenge to UK golfers at Golf du Medoc    
 
  Ireland to host European Amateur Championship in 2012   
 
  Leaderboard Golf wraps up Christmas    
 
  Overwhelming support for EGU and EWGA merger   
 
  R&A rule changes aid "hole in one" prizes   
 
  Will they -Won't they - merge?    
 
  Hassle free Festive Breaks at Dartmouth   
 


  Club news from around the country   
 
 
 
 AMATEUR GOLF FEATURES   
 
  Huge savings on Festive gift ideas!   
 
  Calendar of Events, Charity Days, Pro-Ams...   
 
  Directory of Worldwide Golf Unions & Associations   
 
  News from Golf Clubs all around the country   
 
  Analyse your game and improve your scores   
 
  A Golfing A to Z   
 
 
  


  COMPETITIONS, GIFTS AND OFFERS  
 
   WIN a golf break at Selsdon Park!   
 
  WIN 18 holes at Rockliffe Hall   
 
   WIN London Golf Show tickets   
 
  WIN a Plaser golf swing training aid   
 
  Open Champion Tom Watson's DVD   
 
  Give the Open Fairways card for Xmas!   
 


 
 
 
 
  
 Success for UK players in Grand Final  
2nd December 2009 
 
 Players from UK and Ireland competed against golfers from Sweden and Germany in this inaugural Algarve Golf Trophy Grand Final, a two day stableford competition held at the stunning San Lorenzo Golf Course, Algarve.   
 There was success for Cheltenham's Lindsey Wallace who scored a fabulous 37 points on the final day of competition to leave her top of the ladies' leaderboad and third overall.  Irishman Paul O'Farrell of Fermoy Golf Club won overall nett competition, whilst Sweden's Andreas Borg collected the best gross prize.  The Swede just edged out UK's Duncan Farron from St Pierre Golf Club in Chepstow.  
 Each of the 42 golfers taking part in the Grand Final had successfully qualified from one of the Algarve Golf Trophy competitions held in UK, Ireland, Sweden and Germany, making it a truly international final.  Their prize was this fabulous weekend of first class hospitality and golf at the Dona Filipa Hotel and San Lorenzo Golf Resort.  The event concluded with a special Portuguese gala dinner held at the Paixa Restaurant at Vale do Lobo, where the winners were presented with their prizes.  On accepting his trophy, Paul thanked all of his playing partners, the organisers and the Algarve Tourist Board for their support of the event.  
 Louise Copping of Team Frith, who were the organisers of the UK and Irish events said, ?This grand final was the perfect finale to the series of events we held in the UK and Ireland.  It was such a great opportunity for the players who qualified to play a great golf course and enjoy the wonderful Portuguese hospitality.  All the players have really enjoyed their stay in the Algarve, both on and off the course!?  
 A variety of events from members competitions to invitational days and national charity events took place throughout 2009, with the winners qualifying for the grand final.  This year's series of events in UK and Ireland have taken place at:-  
 Ireland     Dublin          12-Jul    Greystones  
 N. Ireland            Belfast                  02-Aug  Lisburn  
 Ireland                  Dublin                  03-Aug  Rathsallagh  
 Wales                    Chepstow           16-Aug  St Pierre  
 Scotland               Glasgow               29-Aug  Ranfurly Castle  
 Ireland                  Dublin                  30-Aug  Leopardstown Golf Centre  
 Ireland                  Cork                    09-SeptFermoy  
 England                Coventry             14-Sep  Coventry  
 The event was also held in conjunction with the NSPCC Ladies' Golf Classic, with the overall winners being invited to the Algarve for the final.  
 For information on the Algarve Golf Trophy in 2010, please contact Team Frith on +44 (0) 870 850 3436.  For more information on visiting the Algarve and special offers available please visit  www.algarvepromotion.pt   
    
  
 
  
 
 
  

 
  
 
    
    
 
 
  




 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
  





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       Half Price Golf!    
  Play golf at over 1400 courses in the UK and Ireland for half price, and save up to 50% at over 600 courses  around the world with our discount schemes. 
  
      Winter Golf Breaks    
Find your ideal golf break in the UK & Ireland, Europe, or somewhere more exotic. Prices start at just £69, so beat the gloom with some winter golf! 
 
 
  
  
      Book Tee Times    
  In partnership with the UK's leading online teebooking specialist, we now offer over 250 courses where you can book a time and save up to 75% on green fees! 
 
 
 



 
 
 
 
 
 Golf Today Classifieds 
  
 
   
  Advertise 
 

 

 
 
   Bookmark page with: 
      del.icio.us   
      digg   
      reddit   
      stumbleupon   
      facebook   
      google   
 
 


 
   
       What are these   
       Email This Page  
      Follow us on Twitter   
    Top of Page   
 
 

 
   
      News   
      Tuition   
      Course Directory   
      Equipment   
      Travel   
      Notice Board   
 
 
 
 
© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2010