Win a Plaser golf swing training aid! 
  
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

      

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  Home  
   Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers  
  Book Tee Times  
  Golf Breaks & Holidays  
  Travel Features  
  Golf Equipment  
  Golf Shop  
  Golf Tips &  Instruction  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Services Directory  
  Classified Ads  -  Jobs  
  Amateur Golf  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Asian Golf  
  Tour Rankings  
  Tournaments  
  Golf News Archive  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      


  
 
 
 
  
    
  Competitions  
  
 
 
  
  Win a Plaser 


 golf swing training aid

!  
 Improving your golf swing is one of the most important golf training techniques needed to enhance your game. Whether you're a novice or an experienced professional, getting your swing plane right makes all the difference in developing the perfect golf swing.  
 Now at last there's a simple way to get your golf swing right and improve your game forever. Introducing Plaser, a brand new product and the most precise golf swing plane training aid available today.  
 The Product  
 The Plaser golf swing plane training aid is unique. Designed and developed over several years by golf professionals who really understand just how frustrating it can be to develop a consistent, accurate and powerful golf swing.  
 Everyone who has used the Plaser golf club to help them get accurate feedback on their golf swing has been amazed at how easy, simple and effective it is.  
 When you purchase a Plaser you are getting a high quality piece of golf training kit that you can start using immediately to train you to improve your game.  
     What's in the box? 
 The Plaser golf training kit includes the unique, high quality Plaser 5 iron which is fitted with 2 lasers, one in the club handle and one in the club head. (There is a re-chargeable battery positioned in the handle). 
 You also get the Plaser track which simply folds out on the floor. The kit also includes a comprehensive and instructional golf swing training DVD, club head cover and a battery charger. 
 To find out more visit  www.plaser.co.uk  
 Free Prize Draw. 
 
 
  To enter, simply fill in your details below 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 Name: 
 
 
 
 
 
 Email: 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
   
 
 
  I would like to receive the latest news and exclusive special offers from Golf Today. 
 
  
 
 
  
 Terms and Conditions  
 1) The closing date for entries is at midnight 31 August 2011.  
 2) No purchase necessary. Only one entry per person. Entrants must be 18 years of age or older.  
 3) Entries must be submitted online via  www.golftoday.co.uk .  
 4) The prizes are non transferable and no cash alternative is available.  
 5) The draw will take place on 1 September 2011 at the offices of Golf Today by an independent person whose decision will be final. No correspondence will be entered into. The first entrant drawn at random for each prize will receive it. The winners will be notified by email.  
 6) The winner will be required to permit their name and the town in which they live to be announced on the website.  
    
  
  

  
 
 
  
 
 ENTER THESE  COMPETITIONS NOW!
 
 
 WIN the Official Open 2011 DVD   
 
 WIN a 3 round golf break to Selsdon Park!   
 
 WIN The Golf Miscellany   
 
 WIN 18 holes and B&B at Rockliffe Hall   
 
  




































































 

      



  
  
  

 
 
 
  Charity Golf Days    
Our calendar, plus news of people and events raising money for good causes through golf.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Motoring 
  Mercedes-Benz C63 AMG Coupe - the
world’s greatest road-going V8? 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  A Mixed Bag   
A look at the valuations of various items of golf ephemora that readers own.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Equipment 2011   
What's new, refined & innovative for the coming year a full report from Golf Europe.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  World Golf Tour    
Continues to grow ever more popular, surpassing over 100 million online rounds played.  
  
    
 
 


   
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
  
 
  Classified Ads - see more here...  
  

   

 
   
 
 

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these?   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Classifieds   -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us