Golf at Half Price from Golf Today : 2-for-1-golf with Open Fairways 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

      


 
 
  
 
 




 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  Home   
   Golf Course Guide   
  England  -  Ireland  
  Scotland  -  Wales  
  Europe  -  Asia  
  Rest of the World  
  Latest  Course Reviews  
  Submit  a Course Review  
  Change Course   Details  
  Add a  New  Course  
  Golf Course News  
  Society & Corporate Golf  
  Charity Golf Days  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers   
  Book Tee Times   
  Golf Breaks & Holidays  
  Travel Features  
  Golf Equipment  
  Golf Shop  
  Golf Tips &  Instruction  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Services Directory  
  Classified Ads  -  Jobs  
  Amateur Golf   
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Asian Golf  
  Tour Rankings  
  Tournaments   
  Golf  News Archive   
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  


 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      



  
 	 
 
  
    
  Course Guide   
  2 for 1 Golf Vouchers  
  
 
 
  
             Open Fairways - the ‘world’s local green fee programme’  
			 
 
 
  
 
 Green fees for as little as HALF PRICE in the UK, Ireland and around the world with Open Fairways! Only £59! 
 
   
 
 
             Established for over 15 years, Open Fairways is the leading provider of green fee incentives throughout the world and the only choice for the discerning golfer. 
             The Open Fairways concept is simple - members and their guests (up to 8 players can use a single card) have the opportunity to play quality golf courses, either locally or abroad, at affordable prices. 
			  
             This is your chance to experience what members of Open Fairways enjoy week in week out... unprecedented choice at a fraction of the cost.  
             From playing golf at a local course or hidden gem, to a day out at a Championship course, to arranging a golf break in France, Spain or Portugal and beyond, the fully transferable Open Fairways Privilege Card delivers the ultimate value and choice. 
             Membership is your passport to exclusive, typically half price green-fee savings for up to eight golfers on any one visit – perfect for golfers of all abilities and if you regularly play with friends or family. 
             The programme features many top ranked venues such as Turnberry, Gleneagles, Lahinch, Royal Dublin, Royal St. David’s, Trevose, Fulford Heath and Brocket Hall as well as hundreds of local courses and hidden gems. 
              With a growing list of international venues ,  including Portugal’s Praia D’El Rey, Spain's La Manga Club, Sweden's Barsebäck and China's Mission Hills, there really is something for every discerning golfer, including the new Links Collection 
             Membership benefits include: 
             • Exclusive green fee offers at 1000+ premier courses throughout GB & Ireland 
            • Exclusive green fee offers at 800+ International venues including France, Spain and Portugal 
            • The Open Fairways Links collection boasting 100 of the finest links courses in the UK and Ireland 
            • Average saving of £75 per fourball 
            • Fully transferable membership card valid for 12 months 
• Unrivalled discounts at 9000+ hotels in 140 countries worldwide including 200+ hotels in Ireland alone (www.hotel-express.com) 
               Course examples and savings: 
             
               
                   
                 1 Ball Savings  
                 2 Ball Savings  
                 3 Ball Savings  
                 4 Ball Savings  
               
               
                 IRELAND  
                 Co. Louth - €31.25  
                 The Island - €57.50  
                 Lahinch - €93.75  
                 Royal Dublin - €250  
               
               
                 ENGLAND  
                 Trevose - £32.50  
                 St. Mellion International - £90  
                 Berwick-upon-Tweed £57  
                 The Grove - £350  
               
               
                 SCOTLAND  
                 Panmure - £34  
                 Gleneagles Kings Course - £155  
                 Dundonald Links - £142.50  
                 Turnberry Ailsa - £190  
               
               
                 WALES  
                 Conwy - £12.50  
                 Royal St. Davids - £30  
                 Pennard - £45  
                 Aberdovey - £50  
               
             
             Comparison to voucher schemes: 
           • One Open Fairways card is equivalent to a full year’s unlimited supply of vouchers 
            • The cost of an Open Fairways membership equates to the same cost as purchasing sufficient vouchers to cover just 8-10 fourballs per year. 
            • The Open Fairways card not only gives more choice but also gives exclusive discounted access to premier courses nationally and internationally, only promoted by Open Fairways 
            • The prestigious image of the black Open Fairways membership card ensures you are recognized as a member as opposed to a token user. 
          
      
             Frequently Asked Questions 
             

 Q. How long are The Open Fairways Membership cards valid for?  
  A.  Our current batch of Membership Cards are valid until 31st August 2012
 Q. How do the green fee offers work in practice?  
    A.  It really couldn't be easier. Simply pick a course from the lists provided here on Golf Today:  England  -  Ireland  -  Scotland  -  Wales  -  Continental Europe  -  Asia  -  Australasia , or visit the  Open Fairways website . All the information you need is provided, including course descriptions and contact details. Just telephone or email the course to book a tee time and be sure to tell them you're an Open Fairways Member. On the day, show your Membership Card and pay your reduced green fees. Simple!
 Q. Are there any restrictions as to when I can claim the golf or hotel discounts?  
  A.  No, generally just the normal visitor rules apply.
 Q. Do all the golfers in my party need to be members to be entitled to the savings?  
  A.  No, your Card covers up to 8 golfers on any one visit.
 Q. Can I only use my Card once at each participating golf course and hotel?  
  A.  No, each establishment can be visited at least twice each year at your privileged rates, and many courses will allow you to use the 2 for 1 offer as often as you wish.
 Q. Do you require a handicap certificate to be able to play the participating courses?  
  A.  Certain golf courses (less than 5%) may require a handicap certificate. Please check on our relevant course page, or ask the club when booking your tee time. 
 Q. Am I the only one who can use my Membership Card?  
  A.  No, your Card is completely transferable so you can give it to your friends, family or business associates so they can play or stay with Open Fairways.
 Q. I am not even a golfer!  
  A.  That doesn't matter. The Card can be used completely independently in certain countries to book superb hotels at preferential room rates, allowing you to enjoy short or long leisure breaks in beautiful locations at half price!
       Click here for further information . 
    
  
             Q. How do I find out which courses participate in this scheme? 
                 
                A. Look for the OPEN FAIRWAYS icon (right) within our course directory on the course pages or the country/region/county index pages. You can also click on the following links to find full lists of participating golf courses in  England  -  Ireland  -  Scotland  -  Wales  -  Continental Europe  -  Asia  -  Australasia  
           Q. Can we just turn up at a course with my Card and play? 
                A. No. You must telephone or email the course in advance and book a tee time, 
              specifying the number of players and that you will will be using your Open Fairways Membership Card.  
               Q. Does my membership expire?  
                A. Yes. However, membership is always for a minimum of twelve months, and sometimes slightly longer, depending on when you order.  
               Q. Are the Membership Cards transferable? 
                A. Yes. The Open Fairways Card is not nominative, so you can share it with family, friends and colleagues, and up to eight people may play on a single visit with one Card.  
               Q. My friend is a member at a participating club. Can I get the 
                discount on a member's guest green fee? 
                A. No. The Membership Card is not valid in conjunction with other promotional 
                offers.  
               Q. How much can I save with Open Fairways? 
                A. With over 1800 courses available around the world, this varies very much according to where you choose to play. In most instances, however, the Open Fairways membership cost will be covered by the savings on your first two- or four-ball, and at the most prestigious and expensive venues the savings can easily exceed £100 a visit! ( Click here for some examples ) 
               Q. How quickly will I receive my Membership Card if I order online? 
                A. We aim to process all orders within 48 hours of receipt and they are 
                dispatched by Royal Mail with First Class postage.  
               Q. How many Cards can I order?  
                A. The minimum order is one Card, and there is no maximum. However, in most cases there is no need to order more than one (please see the next FAQ in this respect).  
               Q. Would I be eligible for a discount if ordering more than one Card?  
  A.  As with our other green fee schemes, we offer one free Card for ten purchased. However, most purchasers need never order more than one, since each Card allows up to eight players to receive the discount on a single visit, and the Cards are completely transferable among your family, friends and colleagues. 
               Q. What if I have more questions? 
                A. Please get in touch via our " Contact 
                Us " page  
				      
             ORDER 
              NOW!  
             The Open Fairways Membership Card costs just £59 from Golf Today inclusive of shipping and handling.  
             BY CHEQUE : You can order by post, making cheques 
              payable to "GolfToday". Please send your remittance and your name and full address 
              to:- 
             GolfToday.co.uk 
              8 The Glen  
              Shepherdswell 
              Dover 
              Kent 
              CT15 7PF  
              United Kingdom 
             ONLINE: You can order online using your credit card via our secure 
              server  by 
              clicking here .  
                Order 
                your Card securely now by clicking here  
                  
             Terms & Conditions  
             These are the simple steps you need to follow when using your Card. 
             
    
  
             Participating courses are clearly marked with the OPEN FAIRWAYS icon (right) on the county or regional listings, as well as on the course page itself, just below the 'Visitors' information. 
             1. Telephone or email your chosen golf club in advance to arrange your tee times, and be sure to declare your intention to use your Open Fairways Membership Card, as well as the number of players (up to eight may play with just one Card).  Tee times are subject to availability. In Asia, please contact the Open Fairways local offices for reservations,  details here ) 
             2. Read any requirements and restrictions carefully for the golf 
              club you intend to visit. Certain clubs may require a handicap certificate 
              or impose other requirements such as Soft Spikes only. These are 
              listed in the course directory, though it's also wise to double 
              check exactly what the club requires when booking.  
             3. The special Open Fairways rate only applies 
              in the season and on  the days and times specified by the club. When you make the telephone or email booking, the course will confirm 
              any restrictions. 
             4. The Open Fairways Membership Card is for casual play only and 
              is not valid for substitute or part payment for  society/corporate 
              bookings of more than 8 golfers. Any exceptions to this rule are 
              at the complete discretion of the golf club and require the express 
              agreement of the Golf Manager at the time of booking.  
             5. A current Open Fairways Membership Card must be 
              presented along with the balance of the green fees payable. All the 
              golfers must tee-off together based on the standard, adult, visitor 
              green fee rates. 
             6. Open Fairways applicants must be aged 18 or over. It is 
              at the discretion of each participating course whether or not they 
              permit any junior green fee rate to be applied to the Open Fairways
              terms and can be checked at the time of booking. 
             7. Please observe the dress code of each club you intend to visit. Failure to do so may result in you being refused access to the course and/or the clubhouse.  
             8. Certain participating clubs reserve the right to restrict the 
              number of times in any 12 month period that a membershp card holder may 
              avail of the special Open Fairways rates. It is essential to check after the 
              first round whether or not a club imposes such restrictions.  
             9. The Open Fairways Card may not be used in conjunction with club 
              competitions such as Open Days or any other short-term promotional 
              offers. The  green fee offers do not apply to visitors' 
              rates when playing with a member of a participating club.  
             10. Occasionally a new or temporary member of the pro shop staff 
              may be unaware of the Open Fairways arrangement. In the 
              unlikely event of this arising you should ask to consult the golf 
              manager for clarification.  
             11. Golf Today will inform the Open Fairways scheme owners of the new Member's name and contact details, so that Open Fairways can, as and when appropriate, inform the Member of special promotional offers and new benefits available to Card holders. 
            
			    
			   
 
 
  
 
 For complete details on savings please visit  www.openfairways.com . You will also find further information and help with booking your tee time by visiting the regional Open Fairways websites below:  
			   For Cyprus, France, Germany Spain and Portugal:  www.openfairways.com  
			   
			      For 
			      Sweden, Norway and Finland:   www.openfairways.se  
			   
				  For Australia and New Zealand:  www.openfairwaysaustralia.com  
			    
		      For China & Macau, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Brunei, Cambodia, Vietnam and Sri Lanka:   www.openfairwaysasia.com . Please also note that for reservations in Asia, it is necessary to contact the Open Fairways Call Centers, and not the clubs themselves.
		     Details are:              
       For China/Hong Kong/Macau: 
			    Phone +86 (0)769 2247 2270; 
	      email  teetime@openfairwaysasia.com        
       For South East Asia: 
	        Phone +66(0)2 343 1851; 
	        email  teetime@openfairwaysasia.com   
 
   
 
 

 
  
 
                   OPEN FAIRWAYS RELATED INFORMATION 
                   
                    Order now using our secure server - 35% off!  
 
                    Open Fairways courses in England   
                   
                    Open Fairways courses in Ireland   
                   
                    Open Fairways courses in Scotland   
                   
                     Open Fairways courses in Wales   
                   
                    Open Fairways courses in  Europe & Africa   
                   
                    Open Fairways courses in Asia   
                   
                    Open Fairways courses in Australia & New Zealand   
                   
                    Open Fairways FAQs   
           
                    Open Fairways Terms & Conditions   
           
 

      




  
                   LIST OF ALL HALF PRICE GOLF COURSES IN:  
                   				    England  -  Ireland  -  Scotland  -  Wales  -  France    
                   
                    Continental Europe  -  Asia  -  Australasia   
				   
                   
				   FURTHER INFORMATION ABOUT EACH SCHEME  
                   
                    GreenFree 2 for 1 Golf  
                   
                    2-FORE!-1   
                 
                    Open Fairways  - 35% off!   
 
                    My Golf Pass (e-pass)   
           
                    2-FORE!-1 France   
                   
                    Golf O Max   
                 
                    Full list of courses for each individual scheme   
           
				 
 
 
  Charity Golf Days    
Our calendar, plus news of people and events raising money for good causes through golf.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Motoring 
  Mercedes-Benz C63 AMG Coupe - the
world’s greatest road-going V8? 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  A Mixed Bag   
A look at the valuations of various items of golf ephemora that readers own.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Equipment 2011   
What's new, refined & innovative for the coming year a full report from Golf Europe.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  World Golf Tour    
Continues to grow ever more popular, surpassing over 100 million online rounds played.  
  
    
 
 


 

      




 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
  
 
  Classified Ads - see more here...  
  

   

 
   
 
 

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these?   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Classifieds   -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us