Amended Rules of Golf for 2012-2015 effective 1st January 2012  
 

  
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

      

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 Home  
 
 
 Amateur News   
  Archive  
  Charity Golf Days  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers   
  Book Tee Times   
  Golf Breaks & Holidays   
  Travel Features   
  Equipment  -  Shop  
  Instruction  
  Services Directory  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Classified Ads  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  




 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      


  
 	 
 
  
    
  Amateur Golf  
  2011  
  
 
 
  
  Amended Rules of Golf  for 2012-2015 effective 1st January 2012  
  10th January 2011 
 The R&A and the United States Golf Association (USGA) have announced the publication of the new Rules of Golf for 2012-15.  
 
   
      
   
   Changes in the Rules   ? which for the first time have been designed, published and presented jointly by golf's governing bodies ? include exonerating a player from penalty if it is known their ball was moved by the wind after address.  
 Following an exhaustive, four-year review of golf's 34 playing Rules, nine principal Rules have been amended to improve clarity and ensure penalties are proportionate.  Significant changes include:  
 ·         Ball Moving After Address (  Rule 18-2b  ). A new exception is added which exonerates the player from penalty if their ball moves after it has been addressed when it is known or virtually certain that they did not cause the ball to move. For example, if it is a gust of wind that moves the ball after it has been addressed, there is no penalty and the ball is played from its new position.  
 ·         Ball in Hazard; Prohibited Actions (  Rule 13-4  ). Exception 2 to this Rule is amended to permit a player to smooth sand or soil in a hazard at any time, including before playing from that hazard, provided it is for the sole purpose of caring for the course and Rule 13-2 (improving lie, area of intended stance or swing or line of play) is not breached.  
 ·         Time of Starting (  Rule 6-3a  ). The rule is amended to provide that the penalty for starting late, but within five minutes of the starting time, is reduced from disqualification to loss of the first hole in match play or two strokes at the first hole in stroke play. Previously this penalty reduction could be introduced as a condition of competition.  
 Commenting on the revisions to the Rules of Golf supported by Rolex, The R&A's Director of Rules and Equipment Standards David Rickman said: ?The key point is that the Rules of Golf will remain fundamentally the same. We have undergone a pretty extensive review although what has come out of that has been relatively modest.  
 ?The Rules of Golf are constantly evolving and our hope is that what we have produced for 2012 is clear, informed by common sense and reflective of the demands of the modern game.?  
 USGA Senior Director of Rules of Golf Thomas Pagel said: ?We have produced a unified code of the Rules of Golf for 60 years and although the context has been the same, we often found the perception that there were different Rules in place depending upon where you were to play the game.  
 ?Now the book will not only have the same content, but it will also be presented in a uniform fashion with similar formatting and covers; this will truly be a single code governing the Rules of the game that reflects the strong collaboration between The R&A and USGA.?  
 The most significant change (  Rule 18-2b  ) will see an end to situations like the one witnessed during the final round of this year's Open Championship when Northern Ireland's Rory McIlroy was penalised when his ball was moved on the 7th green by the wind after he had addressed it.   
 Padraig Harrington, three-time Major winner and R&A - Working for Golf Ambassador, said: ?I am delighted with the changes, in particular the ball moving after address. Every time the wind blows I am worried that my ball is going to move and I am worried about grounding my putter, distracting me from trying to hole my putt.  
 ?This change will speed up play, there won't be as many suspensions and players won't be getting penalised or disqualified unfairly. It is definitely giving us players a little bit of a break.?  
 The R&A will publish in English a total of 2.6 million copies of the Rules of Golf 2012-15, with 1.8 million printed in the UK and 800,000 in Australia. The book will be delivered to 95 worldwide destinations as far away as the Falkland Islands, with 900,000 copies will be distributed among 3,600 clubs and societies in Great Britain & Ireland.  
 Copies of The R&A Rules of Golf are also reproduced under licence in 36 languages, from Bengali to Vietnamese.  
 Companion publications to the Rules of Golf, Decisions on the Rules of Golf 2012 ? 2013 and Golf Rules Illustrated 2012 - 2015 are published next month (November 2011) by Hamlyn and are available from The R&A, high street and online bookstores.  
     
  Click  here   to view the principal changes to the Rules of Golf 2012-2015 and a series of videos explaining the new updates.  
  
  Date
   
 
   
   
  
 
   LATEST AMATEUR NEWS   
 

  France lays down challenge to UK golfers at Golf du Medoc    
 
  Ireland to host European Amateur Championship in 2012   
 
  Leaderboard Golf wraps up Christmas    
 
  Overwhelming support for EGU and EWGA merger   
 
  R&A rule changes aid "hole in one" prizes   
 
  Will they -Won't they - merge?    
 
  Hassle free Festive Breaks at Dartmouth   
 


  Club news from around the country   
 
 

      

 
 
 
 AMATEUR GOLF FEATURES   
 
  Huge savings on Festive gift ideas!   
 
  Calendar of Events, Charity Days, Pro-Ams...   
 
  Directory of Worldwide Golf Unions & Associations   
 
  News from Golf Clubs all around the country   
 
  Analyse your game and improve your scores   
 
  A Golfing A to Z   
 
 

   LATEST GB&I GOLF UNION NEWS   
 




  New caps in Seniors Euro Championships   
 
  Kelly Tidy edges ahead in girls championship   
 
  Georgia Hall leads in U13 Championship    
 
  Paisley in European Cup team   
 
  Rachel Jennings loses Final of Welsh Strokeplay Championship    
 
  Scottish women?s open strokeplay championship   
 

 
 
 
  Charity Golf Days    
Our calendar, plus news of people and events raising money for good causes through golf.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Four Nations  
Matchplay event offers 'Ryder Cup' for club golfers. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Club News   
What's happening in clubs all around the country. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Nat'l County Card   
Golf Clubs - promote yourselves free of charge in 2009! 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golfing A-Z   
Stableford? Condor? Hole in One records? You'll find it all here. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us