Junior Golf Today - News, events, instruction, equipment and more! 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
  
  
  

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

      

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  Home  
   Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers  
  Book Tee Times  
  Golf Breaks & Holidays  
  Travel Features  
  Golf Equipment  
  Golf Shop  
  Golf Tips &  Instruction  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Services Directory  
  Classified Ads  -  Jobs  
  Amateur Golf  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Asian Golf  
  Tour Rankings  
  Tournaments  
  Golf News Archive  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      


  
 	 
 
  
    
  Junior Golf  
  
 
 

 
   
       
 
 
 
  
 

 
  
 

 
   
 

 
  
 

 
     

 
  
 

         
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  Junior Champions Contest 
  Four players shared the title on two-over-par at Wodhall Spa.  
  
    
  
  Staffordshire Academy    
Promising young golfers can still join 2011 County Academy programme. 
 
 

 
 
    
  
  Getting Started in Golf  
  A series of 12 simple lessons for junior golfers just starting out in the game, with some useful information for parents on how best to give children the right start in golf, by Rupert Hunter.  
 
 

 
 
   JUNIOR EQUIPMENT NEWS   
 
   Ping create Moxie Sets for Juniors   
 
   FootJoy performance, comfort & style  
 
  Nike TW Kids Series - boxing clever   
 
   Cobra J/Speed - short, but long!  
 
   Small size, big technology - Callaway XJ   
 
   Nike shoes go green, & red,  blue, pink...   
 
 
  
   WE WANT TO HEAR FROM YOU   
 
   Your favourite course? Tell us why  
 
   Junior equipment - send your reviews   
 
   Parents - your good or bad experiences  
 
  Recommend a junior-friendly club   
 
   Event organisers - send us details   
 
   Dates for our junior golf diary   
 
 
 
 

 
 
  Young Guns!  
  A series of eight child-friendly lessons  to give youngsters the start they need in terms of technique, etiquette and also the social context of the game of golf, with Richard Harrison 
  
    
 
 

 
 
 
  P1@GOLF   
A new range of stylish yet affordable golf trousers that grow with your child  from only £31.99.  
  
      EZ-Distance    
  A Nike ball, just like Tiger plays, but specially designed for kids, to make golf more fun!
  
  
 
     Hole in One?    
  If you've had a Hole in One, tell us all about it and you can join our Junior Hall of Fame. 
 
 

 
 
 
      What's it like to be a pro?   
No, not Tiger Woods or Ian Poulter, but a gifted young golfer trying to earn a living as an Assistant pro at a golf club while he plays local pro events in the   hope of breaking into the big time. Meet Joe Jezzard, 22, and read his blog.   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  Landmark for Junior Golf   
Every parent wanting to give their child a good start in golf is faced with the same question. Where to go for the right instruction, in a friendly, child-safe environment?   The GolfMark programme has the answer.   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   JUNIOR GOLF TODAY HEADLINES   
 
   British Boys Champion Greenberry In England Training Squad   
 
   10 Year Old Wins Mission Hills Grand Final   
 
   Welsh Boys Get Walker Cup Lift   
 
   England Field Three Newcomers Against Wales   
 
   Dartford Juniors Finish In Style   
 
   Hawkstone Park's schools initiative   
 
   Ashton-Under-Lyne juniors claim NW wins   
 
   Still time to join 2011 Staffs Junior Academy  
 
   Highland Spring waters UK golfing roots   
 
   British Father & Son Ch. sees stunning scores   
 






 

      



  
  
  
 
  


  COMPETITIONS, GIFTS AND OFFERS  
 
   WIN a golf break at Selsdon Park!   
 
  WIN 18 holes at Rockliffe Hall   
 
   WIN London Golf Show tickets   
 
  WIN a Plaser golf swing training aid   
 
  Open Champion Tom Watson's DVD   
 
  Give the Open Fairways card for Xmas!   
 


 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
  
 
  Classified Ads - see more here...  
  

   

 
   
 
 

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these?   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Classifieds   -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us