France lays down challenge to UK golfers at Golf du M仕oc  
 

  
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

      

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 Home  
 
 
 Amateur News   
  Archive  
  Charity Golf Days  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers   
  Book Tee Times   
  Golf Breaks & Holidays   
  Travel Features   
  Equipment  -  Shop  
  Instruction  
  Services Directory  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Classified Ads  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  




 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      


  
 	 
 
  
    
  Amateur Golf  
  2011  
  
 
 
  
  France lays down challenge to UK golfers at Golf du M仕oc  
  21st November 2011 
 Members at Golf du M仕oc Hotel and Spa, one of the finest golf complexes in France, have laid down the challenge to anyone from the UK wanting to take them on at their award-winning resort next year. 
 
   
      
   
   
      Approach to the 18th green of Les Chateaux course   
   
 
 There has always been a competitive rivalry between people from opposite sides of the English Channel and golfing bragging rights will up for grabs following the creation of the Ryder Cup-style event for amateurs from April 20-22, 2012.  
  The idea of Henry Martinet, Golf du M仕oc's forward-thinking general manager, the event will start with a practice round on the day of arrival followed by 36 holes of foursomes and fourball golf on the first day, with the all-important singles matches taking place on day two.   Costing ﾛ750 per person*, competitors will also be treated to two gourmet dinners, one of which is in a Chateau Grand Cru Classe Margaux, two fine wine tastings, three lunches and two on-course gourmet breaks during their three-day stay. 
 
   
      
   
 
 The number of places for UK golfers is set to be restricted to 60 in the event's inaugural year but Martinet is hoping it will become a regular on the fixture list in the years to come.   He said: ?I have been thinking about this for some time now, and it seems the perfect time to get the tournament off the ground, especially with the Paris National being awarded the Ryder Cup for 2018.  
 ?The turning point for us was a similar team challenge that we ran in September between visiting UK media and our members where the camaraderie between both sets of players from was plain for all to see. I want to recreate that experience for all.?  
 Situated 30 minutes from Bordeaux, Golf du M仕oc has established itself as one of the leading golfing destinations in Europe over the last decade and received the accolade of being named the best resort in France at the 2010 World Travel Awards.  
 Boasting two 18-hole championship golf courses, the resort has been home to many professional and leading amateur events including the Challenge Tour and annually hosting the French PGA Championship, while Retief Goosen triumphed when the French Open was staged there in 1999. 
 
   
      
   
   
      10th green of Les Vignes course   
   
 
 Its two courses - Les Chateaux and Les Vignes ? vary in character but both are excellent tests of golf, with the former offering more of a links-type challenge while the latter is reminiscent of heathland courses found in the south of England.   With flights scheduled on a daily basis from numerous airports in the UK, Golf du M仕oc is conveniently situated just 25 minutes from Bordeaux airport and the 90-minute flight time ensures that golf lovers can spend maximum time on the courses.  
 Martinet added: ?We want to encourage more UK golfers to visit and experience our wonderful courses and our very close associations with wine growers of the Bordeaux region.  
 ?We have specialised for several years now in supplying a combination of great golf and great wines for our guests, whether it be for a short break or longer, and there is so much to do in the area. We look forward to welcoming the UK team in what will be a great event against our members.?  
 For further information about this unique tournament, go to  www.hotelgolfmedoc.com   for further information and booking details or ring Golf du M仕oc on 0033 556 70 3131 for an official entry form.  
 *Prices based on two people sharing a room. A ﾛ110 supplement will be charged for a single room.  
 Golf du M仕oc Hotel and Spa, located just 30 minutes' drive from Bordeaux airport, offers 79 rooms and suites, two restaurants, two 18-hole championship golf courses, fully equipped gym and spa and indoor swimming pool, and lies within easy reach of the hundreds of wine chateaux in the region.  
 Bordeaux is easily accessible from the UK with airports including London Gatwick, Luton, Manchester, Liverpool, Southampton, Bristol, Dublin and Edinburgh all flying to Bordeaux.  
  
    
  
 
   LATEST AMATEUR NEWS   
 

  France lays down challenge to UK golfers at Golf du Medoc    
 
  Ireland to host European Amateur Championship in 2012   
 
  Leaderboard Golf wraps up Christmas    
 
  Overwhelming support for EGU and EWGA merger   
 
  R&A rule changes aid "hole in one" prizes   
 
  Will they -Won't they - merge?    
 
  Hassle free Festive Breaks at Dartmouth   
 


  Club news from around the country   
 
 

      

 
 
 
 AMATEUR GOLF FEATURES   
 
  Huge savings on Festive gift ideas!   
 
  Calendar of Events, Charity Days, Pro-Ams...   
 
  Directory of Worldwide Golf Unions & Associations   
 
  News from Golf Clubs all around the country   
 
  Analyse your game and improve your scores   
 
  A Golfing A to Z   
 
 

   LATEST GB&I GOLF UNION NEWS   
 




  New caps in Seniors Euro Championships   
 
  Kelly Tidy edges ahead in girls championship   
 
  Georgia Hall leads in U13 Championship    
 
  Paisley in European Cup team   
 
  Rachel Jennings loses Final of Welsh Strokeplay Championship    
 
  Scottish women?s open strokeplay championship   
 

 
 
 
  Charity Golf Days    
Our calendar, plus news of people and events raising money for good causes through golf.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Four Nations  
Matchplay event offers 'Ryder Cup' for club golfers. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Club News   
What's happening in clubs all around the country. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Nat'l County Card   
Golf Clubs - promote yourselves free of charge in 2009! 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golfing A-Z   
Stableford? Condor? Hole in One records? You'll find it all here. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

ｩ Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us