Lee Westwood - The Ultimate Driving Machine  
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

      

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  Home  
   Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers  
  Book Tee Times  
  Golf Breaks & Holidays  
  Travel Features  
  Golf Equipment  
  Golf Shop  
  Golf Tips &  Instruction  
  Long Game  -  Short Game  
  Putting  -  Grip & Set Up   
  Training & Practice  
  The Mental Game  
  Swing Sequences  
  One Minute Tips  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Services Directory  
  Classified Ads  -  Jobs  
  Amateur Golf  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Asian Golf  
  Tour Rankings  
  Tournaments  
  Golf News Archive  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      



  
 	 
 
  
    
    
  Golf Tips & Instruction   
  Long Game Instruction & Tips   
  
 
 
  
 Lee Westwood - The Ultimate Driving Machine  
 
 
 
  
 
 No one in golf drives it any better than Europe's No.1 - and shoulder 'stability' throughout the swing is the key by Pete Cowan. 
 
   
 
  Looking at the sequences below, 
my eye is automatically drawn to the way in which 
Lee's shoulders control the entire motion. From the 
set-up, he maintains his arm and club position to the 
top with the wonderful movement of his upper body. 
At the top of the swing both the left arm and the 
shoulders are at 45 degrees (or thereabouts), and as 
we have highlighted here he creates a distinct right 
angle between his left arm and the clubshaft - huge 
leverage and power there. 
 Looking down the line, again it all matches up: 
the left arm and the shoulders are at that 45-degree 
angle while the clubface matches the wrists. From 
here, there's no compensation necessary on the way 
back to the ball - Lee sets it all up on the way back 
for the delivery on the way down to be perfect. 
 Let me give you an analogy that underpins my 
teaching philosophy: think of the body as the engine, 
the arms and the club as the steering wheel. Ideally, 
the thing you want your engine to do is purr - never 
miss a beat. (That's Lee Westwood every time. He 
has worked hard on his fitness and now he's reaping 
the benefits with a powerful body action.) But no 
matter how good the engine or the steering may be, 
unless the 'linkage' between the two components is 
up to scratch, you're going nowhere. In the golf 
swing, that linkage is the shoulder motion - if the 
shoulders are sound and stable, the transfer of energy 
down into the golf club will be sound and stable. 
That's a trademark of the Pete Cowen method. 
   
  
 
 
 Left arm matches up with the plane of the shoulder turn. At the same time, shoulder stability is the key to Lee's consistency 
 
 
   The problem every golfer has to contend with is 
the fact that the shoulder unit is hyper mobile - it 
can go all over the place. There are only so many 
moving parts to control in making a swing. The 
wrists move in four ways (up and down, back and 
forwards). Your elbows do one thing (up and down). 
But your shoulders can go anywhere they want. So 
what you as a player have to do is learn how to stabilise 
their motion - to hold them in position and 
transfer energy with shoulder stability. 
 The shoulders themselves are 'linked', left and 
right, and you will see in the following sequences 
that Lee achieves this beautifully.What's more, the 
shoulders stabilise the motion all the way through to 
the finish. There's no 'looseness'. Which is why the 
energy is passed so efficiently to the clubhead. 
 
  
 
 
 'Loaded' backswing is reminiscent of Hogan- superb lower body action, feet 'planted', utilising ground force to add to the coil 
 
 
 
  To summarise, the role of the body is thus: 
 • In the backswing the body helps to 'load' the 
power and position the club (as you see above) 
 • Starting the downswing, the shoulder stability 
helps to reposition the club for delivery into the ball 
 • Through impact, the body turns to square the clubface 
and stabilise impact 
 • Finally, the body helps to slow the club down. 
Watch a good player, and you'll see that as the body 
slows to a stop, the arms and the club stop with it - 
all totally under control.  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 The base is set and strong - i.e. hips level, great shoulder angle, arms hanging 'long' and comfortable. A classic set-up for a penetrating drive 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 As he moves the club away, Lee is 'loading' the swing perfectly, the left arm and the shaft creating terrific width. Importantly, he has not 'set' the club too early with excessive wrist action 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 Wrists are now just starting to set, which means he is starting to get some speed into the clubhead. The body action is sound - there's no unnecessary movement as he continues to rotate his upper body over the stability of his hips and legs 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 What I really like about this position at the top is the three-dimensional hip depth. Lee has not moved laterally - this is rotation of the hips. You can see the power in the ripples in his shirt - he is 'loading' from the left hip to the right shoulder. This is reminiscent of the Hogan model - a lot of people would regard this is a reverse pivot, but it's not. It's a three dimensional rotation against a stable right leg - this swing is loaded (I'd give it 7 out of 10!) 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 What I call the 'left post' - the position of the left leg as he moves into the transition is perfect, really. He has pressure into his right leg and from here he has all the time in the world to use that stored-up energy. The hips can be the biggest killer in the golf swing, but they're also one of the biggest providers of power, so you have to learn to use them correctly 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 The position of the left arm obviously draws your eye here, and more on that in a moment. You can see that the left shoulder has pulled away from the head as Lee uses the rotational power of the upper body to square the clubface. He is using leverage from the left foot to the left shoulder - that's where real power comes from.What a lot of people don't realise is that Lee's left arm is naturally bent, which helps to explain why he is such a good driver of the ball - in other words his anatomy actually helps him to hit a power fade. And just look at the head position - it's 'behind the ball turning'. Lee never gets ahead of it., and as a result there's a massive energy transfer as the ball is thrown down the line 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 Just looking at this still photo you can tell that Lee's shoulders and body action remain in total control of the swing all the way to the finish. The shoulders arrive level, the clubshaft is behind the neck. Yet again, the engine is purring all the way - and that's the secret to the efficient transfer of energy to the ball 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 Arms and shaft at a good angle (I refer to the 'sweep' angle from right shoulder down right arm to the shaft - and that's all good here). Head position/ general posture is all excellent. This is the result of the hard work Lee has being doing in the gym with his physical trainer, Steven MacGregor. As Lee mentioned in the last issue, he works on strength and flexibility exercises that enable him to recreate a two-second explosion - which he may repeat only 40 times in a a round of golf. Right now, he's at the peak of his fitness 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 The left arm position here is perfect, elbows level - as you can see they are in many of the key positions in the backswing. That's a massive plus with the driver. You can see the elbows retain their relationship in the third and fourth frames, it's a constant. I mentioned earlier that I use a 45 degree angle reference at the top of the swing - adding it here illustrates Lee is on the right track 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 As his wrists set the club up, and the clubhead gathers speed, we look for the shaft to go through the bicep - we don't want to see it too 'deep', or behind him. As he then reaches the top I don't want to see the hands get too far behind the right shoulder - in fact, if I was being a 100% critical, I might say I'd like to see the hands a little more above the tip of the right shoulder in the next frame (tho' it might just be the angle at which the photo is taken). But that's just me being pedantic - hey, I'm a Yorkshireman! 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 To all intents and purposes, the right arm and right shoulder position is fantastic. We've been working hard on this lately. For me, right arm stability is everything in the swing. We could draw a triangle shape in here, it's textbook. The left arm matches up with the plane of the shoulders, and look at how the clubface is in tune with the back of the left hand while the shaft is starting to flex and 'load' 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 As he starts down, look at the way the left arm and the shaft are lining up - what I call 'shallowing the loft'. Lee never gets the clubface shut. If you look at the clubface at the top of the swing and then again here, you can see the club has retained the perfect loft: it is not de-lofted, it is not changed from the position at the top of the backswing. This is controlled by the right shoulder working down and not forwards before it then rotates hard 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 A perfect pre-delivery position - the club is neither too far behind him or too much in front. Only now does the right elbow get below the left - a natural hitting position as a player prepares for impact. He squares it all up with the hips and shoulders turning in the very next frame 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 Lee moves to determine the shot with great footwork - i.e. his weight is going in the direction in which he wants to fire the shot. You “keep the ground”, as I constantly remind my players. If you lose the ground then you will lose all control of what's happening above the ground. (You see the same thing with Rory) 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 Look how far left of the target Lee's body is facing at the finish - the result of a totally committed rotation and release through the ball. Remember, your hand arc must be to the left of the target line - that's a point many amateurs fail to get to grips with (hence they 'chase' the ball down the target line, which costs them speed). Lee's whole body is rotated left of the play line. He turns left, the ball goes straight, and he wraps it all up in perfect balance 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 Reproduced with kind permission of Golf International Magazine 

    

 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 INSTRUCTION FEATURES   
 
   Charl Schwartzel Swing Sequence   
 
   Take a tip from me  
 
    Lee Westwood - The Ultimate Driver   
 
    Tiger Woods Swing Sequence   
 
    Tick Tock - Dial in wedges   
 

   Chi Power Golf   
 





















 

      




  
  
  
 
 
 
  Getting Started in Golf   
12 simple lessons for juniors just starting out in the game, with helpful information for parents. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  World Golf Tour   
Continues to grow ever more popular, surpassing over 100 million online rounds played.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Equipment 2011   
What's new, refined & innovative for the coming year a full report from Golf Europe.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Motoring 
  Mercedes-Benz C63 AMG Coupe - the world’s greatest road-going V8? 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  A Mixed Bag   
A look at the valuations of various items of golf ephemora that readers own.  
  
    
 
 

 

      



 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
  
 
  Classified Ads - see more here...  
  

   

 
   
 
 

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these?   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Classifieds   -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us