Four Nations Golf Challenge offers 'Ryder Cup' experience for club golfers 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   About Us    Contact Us    Advertise   Newsletter    
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
     

      

 
   
 
  
 
 
      
 
  


 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Home  
 
 
 Amateur News  
 
  Archive  
 
 Course Guide 
 
 
 2 For 1 Golf  
 
 
 Book Tee Times  
 
 
 Golf Breaks  
 
 Travel Features  
 
 
 Shop  |  Equipment 
 
 
 Tuition  
 

 
  Industry Guide  
 
 
 Golf Property  
 
 
 Score Tracker  
 
 Classified Ads  





 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  

      

 
  Golf Today  >  Amateur Golf  >  2009  > News, Features & Events 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 Ê 
 

      


 
 

   LATEST GB&I GOLF UNION NEWS   
 




  New caps in Seniors Euro Championships   
 
  Kelly Tidy edges ahead in girls championship   
 
  Georgia Hall leads in U13 Championship    
 
  Paisley in European Cup team   
 
  Rachel Jennings loses Final of Welsh Strokeplay Championship    
 
  Scottish women?s open strokeplay championship   
 

 
   LATEST AMATEUR NEWS   
 

  France lays down challenge to UK golfers at Golf du Medoc    
 
  Ireland to host European Amateur Championship in 2012   
 
  Leaderboard Golf wraps up Christmas    
 
  Overwhelming support for EGU and EWGA merger   
 
  R&A rule changes aid "hole in one" prizes   
 
  Will they -Won't they - merge?    
 
  Hassle free Festive Breaks at Dartmouth   
 


  Club news from around the country   
 
 
 
 AMATEUR GOLF FEATURES   
 
  Huge savings on Festive gift ideas!   
 
  Calendar of Events, Charity Days, Pro-Ams...   
 
  Directory of Worldwide Golf Unions & Associations   
 
  News from Golf Clubs all around the country   
 
  Analyse your game and improve your scores   
 
  A Golfing A to Z   
 
 
  


  COMPETITIONS, GIFTS AND OFFERS  
 
   WIN a golf break at Selsdon Park!   
 
  WIN 18 holes at Rockliffe Hall   
 
   WIN London Golf Show tickets   
 
  WIN a Plaser golf swing training aid   
 
  Open Champion Tom Watson's DVD   
 
  Give the Open Fairways card for Xmas!   
 


 
 
 
 
 Four Nations Golf Challenge offers 'Ryder Cup' experience for club golfers 
 
 
  
 
 
 What pride and passion we all witnessed at Celtic Manor! Now it's the turn of Club Golfers of all standards to experience the emotion of a "Ryder Cup moment" and represent their Country in the 2011 Four Nations Golf Challenge! 
 The Four Nations Golf Challenge, potentially the most exciting pairs competition for amateur club golfers ever devised, offers the mouth-watering prize of a "Ryder Cup" style finale on one of Europe's most challenging courses. 
 Open to men and ladies, The Four Nations Golf Challenge will culminate in a Grand Final to be contested by four teams of 12 players representing England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales at The Oxfordshire Golf Club in the Chiltern Hills from 25 - 28 September, 2011. 
 To earn their chance to represent the Champion Golf Nation of the Year, a pair will need to win a maximum of four four-ball, better-ball matches, starting in May, in regional brackets consisting of 16 pairs each. If necessary, depending on the number of entries, a one-day final qualifying event will be held to decide which six pairs will represent their country in the Grand Final. 
 Roger Brady, Director of organisers Concierge Golf, said: "Even though several national knock-out competitions for amateur golfers take place each year, there are none, as far as we are aware, that offer the chance of an 'international team' appearance to club golfers of all standards." 
 The cost of entry is just £20 per person (£40 per pair). 
 The Oxfordshire, a spectacular rolling layout designed by Rees Jones and owned by the Leaderboard Group which also includes Chart Hills, Dale Hill and Sandford Springs, opened its own state-of-the-art four- star hotel last May and every Grand Final participant will stay free of charge throughout the four days. 
 Since opening in 1993, The Oxfordshire has hosted the Anderson Consulting World Matchplay, the Ladies English Open, and from 1996 to 1999 it was the venue for the Benson & Hedges International Open. The latter boasts an enviable list of winners including Colin Montgomerie, Bernhard Langer and Darren Clarke. The Oxfordshire will provide a proven setting for club golfers to experience the passion and thrill of playing for their countries for the first time. 
 
 
  
 
 
 The signature 17th hole at The Oxfordshire 
 
 
 As Roger Brady says: "Just think: it could be you on the last day, all square in the deciding match, your team-mates behind the final green willing you on to hole the putt that gives your country victory! Where else could you feel that 'Ryder Cup moment'?" 
 Entries are open to every golfer with a CONGU 'active" handicap and will close on 30 April, 2011. 
 For tournament registration or any other queries, please click on to  www.fournationsgolfchallenge.co.uk  or call 01276-35505.  
 Ê  
 
 
  

 
  
 
    
    
 
 
  




 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
  





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       Score Tracker   
Handicap and Score Tracker gives you a quick and easy way to track your rounds, analyse your game and record your handicap - all online. And it's free!  
  
       Half Price Golf!    
  Play golf at over 1400 courses in the UK and Ireland for half price, and save up to 50% at over 600 courses  around the world with our discount schemes. 
 
 
  
  
      Improve your game!   
  We have over 100 lessons from top playing and teaching pros on every aspect of the game, as well as the world-famous and proven Leslie King method.  
 
 
 



 
 
 
 
 
 Golf Today Classifieds 
  
 
   
  Advertise 
 

 

 
 
   Bookmark page with: 
      del.icio.us   
      digg   
      reddit   
      stumbleupon   
      facebook   
      google   
 
 


 
   
       What are these   
       Email This Page  
      Follow us on Twitter   
    Top of Page   
 
 

 
   
      News   
      Tuition   
      Course Directory   
      Equipment   
      Travel   
      Notice Board   
 
 
 
 
© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2010