Golf Today's A to Z of Golf 
  
  
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

      

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  Home  
  Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers  
  Book Tee Times  
  Golf Breaks & Holidays  
  Travel Features  
  Golf Equipment  
  Golf Shop  
  Golf Tips &  Instruction  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  A-Z of Golf   
  Books  -  Golf Quotations  
  Charity Golf Days  
  Features & Interviews  
  Golf Property  
  History of Golf  
  Memorabilia  -  Motoring  
  On This Day  
  Readers Letters  

  Services Directory  
  Classified Ads  -  Jobs  
  Amateur Golf  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Asian Golf  
  Tour Rankings  
  Tournaments  
  Golf News Archive  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      


  
 	 
 
  
    
  A-Z of Golf   
  
 
 
  
 A-Z of golfing terms and jargon  

 
 
 
  
 
 Golf has a language all its own, including many old Scottish words and some real oddities, but also everyday words used in a special way. 
So keep up on the course or in the 19th with our golfing glossary - browse the full list or click on a letter below.  
  A  -  B  -  C  -  D  -  E  -  F  -  G  -  H  -  I  - 
     J  -  K  -  L  -  M   N  -  O  -  P  -  Q  -  R  -     S  -  T  -  U  -  V  -  W  -  X  -  Y  -  Z  
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
     
       A   
     
     
         Above the hole 
       Refers to a ball on any sloping green positioned so that the next putt is downhill. Downhill putts are harder to judge for speed and slope, and also riskier, so the good golfer aims to keep his ball ' below the hole ' at all times.  
     
     
       Ace 
       A hole in one. 
     
     
       Albatross 
       Three under par score at a hole. Known as a 'double-eagle' in the US. 
     
     
       Approach 
        Short or medium shot to either the pin or putting green. 
     
     
       Attend the flag  
       To remove and hold flag whilst another player putts.  
     
     
       Away 
       The person furthest way from the hole and the first to play. 
     
     
         
         
     
     
       B   
     
     
       Back 
       The last nine holes of a golf course. Also a tee position that makes hole the longest. 
     
     
       Banana 
       A  slice , or shot that curves strongly left to right. For some reason, 'banana' always refers to a slice, although a ' hook ' is simply a banana facing the other way. Also what professional golfers munch several times a round to maintain their energy levels.  
     
     
         Below the hole 
       Your ball is 'below the hole' on a green if your next putt is uphill. Uphill putts can be struck firmly, meaning that any break is less important and there is less risk of running way beyond the hole. This is particularly true of fast greens, such as one finds in high-level tournaments. The opposite of ' above the hole '.  
     
     
       Best Ball / Better Ball 
       Best score on a hole by partners in a best-ball match.  
     
     
       Birdie 
       One under par score on a hole. 
     
     
       Bogey 
       One over par score on a hole. 
     
     
       Break 
        In putting, the curve the ball will follow due to slope and/or grain in the green. 
     
     
         
         
     
     
       C   
     
     
       Carry 
       Distance a ball travels from impact to hitting the ground. 
     
     
         Chip 
       Short shot played with minimum loft from off the green. 
     
     
       Compression 
       Degree of resilience of a golf ball. 
     
     
        Condor  
       Probably the rarest of all scores in golf: four under par on a hole, ie a hole in one on a par five. Only four examples have ever been recorded, three of them by 'cutting the corner' on par fives with a dogleg, which considerably shortens the hole. Also called a 'triple-eagle' or double-albatross' in the US.  
     
     
         
         
     
     
       D   
     
     
       Divot 
       Turf removed when hitting a shot. 
     
     
       Dogleg 
       Left or right bend in fairway. 
     
     
       Dog Licence 
       If the winning margin in  match play  is 7&6, the victory (or defeat) is called a dog licence. In Great Britain, until 1987, dog owners bought a licence for their pet which cost 7/6d (pre-decimal currency = 37p).  
     
     
       Dormie 
       In  match play , having a lead equal to the number of holes remaining to be played, ie. two up and two to play. 
     
     
       Draw 
       Controlled right to left shot with a moderate curve (or left to right for left-handers).  
     
     
       Drop 
       When the ball is lost, or there is an unplayable lie, a ball is dropped from arm's length at shoulder height onto the course. 
     
     
         
         
     
     
       E   
     
     
       Eagle 
       Two under par score on a hole. 
     
     
         
         
     
     
       F   
     
     
       Fairway 
       The short-grass area between the tee and the green. 
     
     
       Follow-through 
       The latter part of the swing from striking the ball to completion of the motion. 
     
     
       Fore! 
       Warning shout when a shot may endanger another player.  
     
     
       Four-Ball 
       Group of two pairs of golfers recording the better ball score of each pair based on gross or net scores.  
     
     
       Foursome 
       Group of two pairs of golfers playing shots alternately with the same ball. The partners drive at alternate holes, so one will drive the even numbers and one the odd numbers.  
     
     
       Free drop 
       When a player is entitled to make a drop without a penalty stroke.  
     
     
         
         
     
     
       G   
     
     
         Gilligan 
       The opposite of a  Mulligan . When gilligans are agreed in a match, your opponent has the right to ask you to play a shot again - typically a good drive or a long putt holed. 
     
     
       Gimmie 
       Very short putt close to a hole, awarded by other players. Only used in match play, or in friendly golf - in stroke play everything must be holed out. 
     
     
       Grain 
       Direction in which blades of grass grow and influence the speed and roll of the ball on the putting green. When looking 'into the grain' a green will appear darker, and 'with the grain' it will appear lighter or shinier. When putting 'across the grain' the ball will move left or right.  
     
     
       Green 
       Area of course around the hole with very short grass, for putting. 
     
     
       Gross score  
       The total number of actual strokes played within a round, before handicap is taken into account. 
     
     
       Ground under Repair (GUR) 
       If an area of the couse is under maintenance and your ball lands there, you can remove your ball without penalty. Normally identified by stakes or a line.  
     
     
         
         
     
     
       H   
     
   
     Half Shot 
     Reduced swing when taking a shot. Used for shorter shots, or when extra control is required. 
   
     
       Hole out 
       To finish a hole by getting the ball in the cup or hole. Usually done with a putt, but sometimes with a chip from off the green, and occasionally with a full shot. 
     
     
       Honour 
       Given to the player scoring lowest on last hole, and granting the right to tee off first on the next. 
     
     
         Hook 
       Shot that curves strongly from right to left (or the opposite, if you play left handed!). 
     
     
       Hosel 
       Hollow part of clubhead where the shaft is attached. Sometimes called the 'neck'.  
     
     
         
         
     
     
       I   
     
     
     
       In play  
       A shot that comes to rest within the boundaries of the course (the opposite of 'out-of-bounds'). 
     
   Interlocking grip  
       A right-handed player using this grip will interlock the little finger of his right hand with the index finger of his left hand (vice versa for lefties). A good grip for players with small hands. Used by Tiger Woods and Jack Nicklaus, among others.  
    
     In the leather  
     A ball that lies very close to the hole; so called because it was measured by the leather of the putter grip. In friendly play, a putt 'within the leather' is often conceded .  
   
   
       
       
   
   
     J   
   
   
     Jigger 
     Name of an old club with similar loft to a modern 4-iron. Confusingly, it was also sometimes used to describe a short pitching club for work around the green, otherwise called a pitching niblick, or lofting iron, roughly equivalent to a modern pitching wedge.  
   
   
       
       
   
   
     K   
   
   
     Kikuyu 
     Fast-growing, thick African grass that like full sunshine and hot weather. Not suited to woodland or temperate climates. A feature of courses in southern Africa, requiring great skill to play from around the greens. 
   
   
     Knee knocker 
     A short putt, which you really shouldn't miss, but often do.  
   
   
     Knickers 
     American name for golf trousers that stop just below the knee, worn with knee socks. Called 'plus fours' or 'plus twos' in Britain. 
   
   
     Knife 
     Golfing slang for the 1-iron. In the days when all all iron heads were forged, they were often known as 'blades', and the 1-iron was the sharpest (and most dangerous to use) blade of all.  
   
   
       
       
   
   
     L   
   
   
     Lie 
     Resting place  of the ball on the course, hence a 'good lie', or 'poor lie'. Also the angle at which the clubhead is set on the shaft. Tall people usually have clubs with an 'upright' lie (making the shoft more vertical) and shorter people use a 'regular' or 'flatter' lie (placing the cubhead further away from the body).  
   
   
     Links 
     Golf course on coastal terrain, usually with sand dunes and very few trees, and exposed to the wind. Literally a piece of ground that 'links' the mainland to the sea.  
   
   
     Lip 
     Edge of the hole. 
   
   
     Lip-out 
     A putt that catches the lip of the hole and turns around the rim without falling in. 
   
   
     Lucy 
     Rhyming slang: Lucy Locket = socket, or  shank . Arguably the worst shot in golf.  
   
   
       
       
   
   
     M   
   
   
     Marker 
     Thin, flat item used to mark the position of a golf ball on the green to prevent your ball obstructing other player's shots. Small coins may be used, or specifically designed discs of metal or plastic. Also a person who keeps the score in a match, either as a spectator accompanying the players, or one's opponent. 
   
   
       Match Play 
     Competition scored by the number of holes won or lost. The opposite of 'stroke' or 'medal' play. In this format, matches often do not go the full 18 holes.  
   
   
     Medal Play 
     Another name for 'Stroke Play', keeping the score on every hole. The lowest number of strokes, gross or net, wins. 
   
   
     Mixed 
     Man and woman playing together, eg: 'Mixed Foursomes'. Each partner plays off their own tees.  
   
   
       Mulligan 
     Chance to replay one's last shot, granted in a friendly game by an opponent. Not permitted in competition. (See also  Gilligan )  
   
   
       
       
   
   
     N   
   
   
     Net score  
     Score after the handicap strokes have been deducted from the gross score.  
   
   
     Niblick 
     Old-fashioned Scottish term for nine iron. 
   
   
     Nobble 
     To nobble is to  top  a ball, or catch it on the upper half, causing a low, weak, running shot, called a 'nobbler'  
   
   
       
       
   
   
     O   
   
   
     OB 
     Short for 'out of bounds'. Area outside the course play area, usually marked by a white line or white stakes, or boundaries such as walls, fences or railings.  
   
   
       
       
   
   
     P   
   
   
     Par 
     Standard number of strokes for each hole, always including two putts. Almost all golf holes are par 3, 4 or 5, although some new courses are building ultra-long par 6 holes.  
   
   
     Penalty 
     Extra stroke(s) added to a player's score for violation of the rules, loss of ball, out of bounds, etc...  
   
   
     PILS 
     No... not yet. You can enjoy a Pils or three in the 19th when you're done with your putting practice. This PILS stands for 'Pure In Line Square' - the putting method advocated by scientist turned short game guru Dave Pelz, and many others. Essentially it involves a pendulum motion from the shoulders, eliminating all independant hand and arm movement, keeping the putter-face square throughout the stroke. 
   
   
     Pin 
     Flagstick. 
   
   
     Pin-high 
     A ball which is level with the pin, but to one side.  
   
   
       Pitch 
     Shot used to approach the green, shorter swing than normal, but longer and more lofted than a chip. 
   
   
     Play Through 
     When a group of slower golfers or those searching for a ball allow others to pass them. It is good etiquette to allow faster players to 'play through'. 
   
   
     'Plus' Golfer 
     A golfer whose handicap is better than scratch, so he has to add or 'plus' strokes to his gross score after a round, rather than subtracting them.  
   
   
     Plus Fours / PlusTwos 
     Golfing trousers once very popular because they end just below the knee, avoiding getting mud on the trousers when playing. Plus fours are more traditional and fuller cut, folding over 4 inches below the knee, while plus twos are slimmer and more modern, folding only two inches. 
   
   
       
       
   
   
     Q   
   
   
     Quarter Shot 
     Greatly reduced swing in taking a shot. Used for short shots, or when great control is required. (Also 'three-quarter' shot, somewhere between a 'half-shot'and a full swing.) 
   
   
       
       
   
   
     R   
   
   
     Range 
     Practice area (also called the Driving Range). 
   
   
     Recovery 
     Shot played back into a good position from an unfavourable one.  
   
   
     Redan 
       
   
   
     Relief 
     Permission to lift and drop the ball without incurring a penalty. 
   
   
     Rough 
     Longer and thicker grassed area of the course. 
   
   
       
       
   
   
     S   
   
     
         Sandie 
       Term used when playing for money, betting against an opponent. Either a) making par on a hole after being in a bunker at some point, or b) getting out of a bunker and into the hole in two (an ' up and down ').  
     
   
     Sand Save 
     Professional equivalent of a ' sandie ' (version b). Getting out of a bunker and into the hole in two shots. Whether the player makes par or not is immaterial, it is the ' up and down ' which counts. Expressed as a percentage of the number of times achieved out of the number of attempts, and one of the many statistical categories computed on the various pro tours.  
   
   
       Shank 
     Shot struck by the hosel of the club which causes the ball to go sharply right. Also called a 'socket'. 
   
   
     Shiperio 
     Similiar to a  Mulligan , ie a second shot graciously allowed by your opponent, but in this case you can choose which of the two balls you will play.  
   
   
     Skinny 
     Said of a shot hit  thin , which flies lower than usual and with no control. 
   
   
       Slice 
     A shot that curves violently to the right, banana-shaped. Usually caused by striking the ball with an open clubface and an in-to-out swing. The commonest shot shape among beginners and high-handicappers. 
   
   
       
       
   
   
     T   
   
   
       Thin 
     A shot somewhere between a top (see below) and a well-struck ball. The ball is hit below the equator, but not enough to get properly airborne, causing a low and uncontrolled shot. Especially destructive when  chipping  or  pitching  around the green.  
   
   
       Top 
     To hit the ball above the centre, causing the ball to dive down and roll rather than rise. 
   
   
     Turn 
     After the 9th hole, ie the halfway point on a golf course, where you 'turn' for home.  
   
   
       
       
   
   
     U   
   
   
     Unplayable lie  
     When it is impossible to play a shot because of ground conditions or an obstruction. The player may drop the drop the ball in a better position, in accordance with the rules, under penalty.  
   
   
       Up and Down  
     When a player fails to be on the green in regulation, but gets on it with an approach shot and one-putts into the hole.  
   
   
       
       
   
   
     V   
   
   
     Vardon Grip  
     Another name for an overlapping grip made popular by Harry Vardon. The little finger of the right hand (for right-handers ) overlaps the forefinger of the left hand.  
   
   
       
       
   
   
     W   
   
   
     Whiff 
     To swing and miss the ball completely. Counts as a stroke. Also called an 'air-shot', or 'fresh air'.  
   
     
       Worm-burner 
       A  topped , or thinned shot that runs along the ground, thus endangering the useful invertebrates that might be getting a breath of fresh air.  
     
   
       
       
   
   
     X   
   
   
     X-outs 
     Balls that do not meet a manufacturer's stringent quality controls, either because of a small cosmetic blemish or because they are very marginally outside the size or weight tolerances (1.680" and 1.620oz). They are sold at a reduced price and the manufacturer's name is 'x'-d out. Otherwise perfectly normal and very good value, but beware of using them in competition as incorrect tolerances will make them illegal.  
   
   
       
       
   
   
     Y   
   
   
     Yardage 
     The distance between the player's ball and the target he is aiming for. The 'yardage' of a hole is officially the figure given on the scorecard from a specific tee, but will vary according to the position of the tee-markers and the pin position on the green. Top players use 'yardage charts' to calculate their distance from specific points on the course and to help with club selection.  
   
   
     Yips 
     Chronic missing (or fear) of short putts, usually because of a nervous twitch. Very difficult to overcome, but can be alleviated by unorthodox grips or long (eg 'broom-handle' or 'belly') shafted putters.  
   
   
       
       
   
   
     Z   
   
   
     Zoysia 
     A very thin bladed, slow-growing grass with deep roots that is resitant to drought and extreme temperatures. 
   
   
       
       
   
  
 
   
   
  
 
   SELECTED GOLF A-Z ARTICLES   
 
  The lowest round in Major Championships (63)   
 
   How much does Tiger earn every shot?  
 
    Father & Son winners on major pro tours   
   
   Who are the tallest professional golfers?   
 
   The Condor - the rarest event in golf   
 
   Dormie - its meaning and origin   
 
   Hole-in-One: Records and Feats   
 
   What size is the golf hole, and why?   
 
   The Stableford Scoring System   
 
   Future venues & dates for Major events   
 

 

      



  
  
  
 
 
 
  Charity Golf Days    
Our calendar, plus news of people and events raising money for good causes through golf.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Motoring 
  Mercedes-Benz C63 AMG Coupe - the
world’s greatest road-going V8? 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  A Mixed Bag   
A look at the valuations of various items of golf ephemora that readers own.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Equipment 2011   
What's new, refined & innovative for the coming year a full report from Golf Europe.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  World Golf Tour    
Continues to grow ever more popular, surpassing over 100 million online rounds played.  
  
    
 
 


 

      




 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
  
 
  Classified Ads - see more here...  
  

   

 
   
 
 

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these?   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Classifieds   -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us