The Golf Miscellany - By John White  
 

  
 
    
 
 
 
  
   LATEST AMATEUR NEWS   
 

  France lays down challenge to UK golfers at Golf du Medoc    
 
  Ireland to host European Amateur Championship in 2012   
 
  Leaderboard Golf wraps up Christmas    
 
  Overwhelming support for EGU and EWGA merger   
 
  R&A rule changes aid "hole in one" prizes   
 
  Will they -Won't they - merge?    
 
  Hassle free Festive Breaks at Dartmouth   
 


  Club news from around the country   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

      

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 Home  
 
 
 Amateur News   
  Archive  
  Charity Golf Days  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers   
  Book Tee Times   
  Golf Breaks & Holidays   
  Travel Features   
  Equipment  -  Shop  
  Instruction  
  Services Directory  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Classified Ads  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  




 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      


  
 	 
 
  
    
  Amateur Golf  
  2011  
  
 
 
  
 The Golf Miscellany - By John White  
With a foreword by Darren Clarke  
 
"There is something for everyone in The Golf Miscellany written by Belfast born John White. Now fully revised and updated up to and including the US Masters 2011" (Martin Corteel, Sports Editor, Carlton Publishing Ltd) 
 The foreword by our current Open Champion says "This really is a goldmine of a book and one that I will dip into between tournaments to satisfy my own thirst for knowledge of the sport"  
 This sums up my own thoughts - My reading of the book made the rather boring flights between Toulouse and Gatwick and return pass not only very quickly but the book made fascinating reading. 
 
   
      
   
 
 Full of "wit and wisdom" or "historical" gems like:-  
 "Close shave at Augusta" -"on his way to winning the 1998 Masters Mark O'Meara only led one hole outright - the 72nd"  
 or "Tenth Time Lucky - It took Ben Hogan 10 attempts before he won his first Masters title in 1951 Two years later he won his second green jacket"  
 "I look into their eyes,shake their hand,pat their backs, and wish them luck. But I am thinking I'm going to bury you" 
  Seve Ballesteros  
 "The Golf Miscellany is not really a book that should be read from cover to cover; it is more a book that should be dipped into sporadically and enjoyed in short breaks. Painstakingly researched, and offering a refreshing insight into the game - from the essential to the downright quirky"(Martin Corteel, Sports Editor, Carlton Publishing Ltd)  I found the variety of information immense and of real interest to anyone passionate or even just interested in the game of golf.  
 It's a book well worth buying and reading, it's a handy size for taking with you on your travels, it would make an ideal present or stocking filler for Mums, Dads, brothers, sisters or friends.  
   
  The Golf Miscellany will bring hours of reading pleasure to every sports fan. 
 Personally, and I've been closely involved in the world of golf for more than 35 years, I think The Miscellany of Golf is a must for our readers.  
 So I add my comments to those already quoted from Darren Clarke and from Sir Nick Faldo who writes "The Golf Miscellany not only brought back memories from my own three decades as a professional golfer, but also helped to reaffirm my passion for the history and traditions of this great game"  
 Click here (shortly) to enter our competition to win one of the 5 books kindly donated by Carlton Publishing Ltd  
 Stuart Barber  
  28th September 2011  
 Publisher (since 1996)  
   http://www.golftoday.co.uk/   
   http://www.amateur-golf.com/   
                                               The book is priced at £9.99 but can be purchased online from Amazon for £8.99 (with free postage) via the following link:  
  http://www.amazon.co.uk/Golf-Miscellany-John-White/dp/1847328423/ref=sr_1_3?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1314785018&sr=1-3   
 In return for Darren's kindness to agree the Foreword to  my book, my Publisher made a donation of £1,000 to breast cancer in memory of Darren's wife, Heather, who he lost on 13th August 2006 through this terrible illness.  
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
 

      

 
 
 
 AMATEUR GOLF FEATURES   
 
  Huge savings on Festive gift ideas!   
 
  Calendar of Events, Charity Days, Pro-Ams...   
 
  Directory of Worldwide Golf Unions & Associations   
 
  News from Golf Clubs all around the country   
 
  Analyse your game and improve your scores   
 
  A Golfing A to Z   
 
 

   LATEST GB&I GOLF UNION NEWS   
 




  New caps in Seniors Euro Championships   
 
  Kelly Tidy edges ahead in girls championship   
 
  Georgia Hall leads in U13 Championship    
 
  Paisley in European Cup team   
 
  Rachel Jennings loses Final of Welsh Strokeplay Championship    
 
  Scottish women?s open strokeplay championship   
 

 
 
 
  Charity Golf Days    
Our calendar, plus news of people and events raising money for good causes through golf.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Four Nations  
Matchplay event offers 'Ryder Cup' for club golfers. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Club News   
What's happening in clubs all around the country. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Nat'l County Card   
Golf Clubs - promote yourselves free of charge in 2009! 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golfing A-Z   
Stableford? Condor? Hole in One records? You'll find it all here. 
  
    
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us