Golf Competitions from Golf Today 
  
  
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

      

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  Home  
   Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers  
  Book Tee Times  
  Golf Breaks & Holidays  
  Travel Features  
  Golf Equipment  
  Golf Shop  
  Golf Tips &  Instruction  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Services Directory  
  Classified Ads  -  Jobs  
  Amateur Golf  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Asian Golf  
  Tour Rankings  
  Tournaments  
  Golf News Archive  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      


  
 	 
 
  
    
  Competitions  
  
 
 
  

 

 
     The Golf Miscellany book give away   
    There is something for everyone in The Golf Miscellany . Within these pages the reader will learn fascinating facts about the sport on a wide range of topics, from the players and the tournaments (both individual and team) to the great courses that have provided the stage on which the sport's stars have performed. As the items appear completely at random,  
 The Golf Miscellany is not really a book that should be read from cover to cover; it is more a book that should be dipped into sporadically and enjoyed in short breaks. Painstakingly researched, and offering a refreshing insight into the game - from the essential to the downright quirky - The Golf Miscellany will bring hours of pleasure to every sports fan.  
  The foreword by our current Open Champion says "This really is a goldmine of a book and one that I will dip into between tournaments to satisfy my own thirst for knowledge of the sport"  
  We've five copies to give away to readers - to enter click here!    
 




 
  
 
 
    
  
Official Open 2011 DVD give away    
   We've ten copies to give away to lucky Golf Today readers!  
  Click Here to Enter   
   
 
  
    
   Win 18 holes at Rockliffe Hall as well as B&B for 4 players.   
    Rockliffe Hall is a spectacular 5* golfing resort, offering modern luxury accommodation and an immaculate parkland golf course. The variety of challenging and truly great holes certainly makes this  one to remember.

 
    Our November competition gives one lucky winner the chance to play 18 holes at Rockliffe Hall as well as Bed & Breakfast for 4 players. The  competition runs from 1st to 30th November 2011.  
   Click  HERE  now to enter!   
 
 
    
 
      
 
 
  Win 2 nights, dinner, bed & breakfast, and 3 rounds for 4 at Selsdon Park!  
   
    
  Our November competition  offers a chance to win a fantastic 2 nights, dinner, B&B and 3 rounds of golf break for 4 people at the luxury 4* Selsdon Park Resort, just 10 minutes from Junction 6 on the M25. This large, 200 room hotel is set in 205 acres of beautiful parkland, with a history going back over 1000 years, and has plenty of character and unique features such as the ancient suit of armour in the lobby and the ancient tapestries around the hotel.  
 Selsdon Park golf course was originally laid out in 1929, and has a reputation as one of the top golf courses in the area, having hosted a Europro Tour Event in 2007. 
 The competition runs from 1st - 30th November and the lucky winner will be advised the week afterwards. Click  HERE  to enter now. 
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 ENTER THESE  COMPETITIONS NOW!
 
 
 WIN the Official Open 2011 DVD   
 
 WIN a 3 round golf break to Selsdon Park!   
 
 WIN The Golf Miscellany   
 
 WIN 18 holes and B&B at Rockliffe Hall   
 
  




































































 

      



  
  
  

 
 
 
  Charity Golf Days    
Our calendar, plus news of people and events raising money for good causes through golf.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Motoring 
  Mercedes-Benz C63 AMG Coupe - the
world’s greatest road-going V8? 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  A Mixed Bag   
A look at the valuations of various items of golf ephemora that readers own.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Equipment 2011   
What's new, refined & innovative for the coming year a full report from Golf Europe.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  World Golf Tour    
Continues to grow ever more popular, surpassing over 100 million online rounds played.  
  
    
 
 


 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
  
 
  Classified Ads - see more here...  
  

   

 
   
 
 

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these?   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Classifieds   -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us