Promote your Club free of charge in 2009! 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   About Us    Contact Us    Advertise   Newsletter    
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
     

      

 
   
 
  
 
 
      
 
  


 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Home  
 
 
 Amateur News  
 
  Archive  
 
 Course Guide 
 
 
 2 For 1 Golf  
 
 
 Book Tee Times  
 
 
 Golf Breaks  
 
 Travel Features  
 
 
 Shop  |  Equipment 
 
 
 Tuition  
 

 
  Industry Guide  
 
 
 Golf Property  
 
 
 Score Tracker  
 
 Classified Ads  





 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  

      

 
  Golf Today  >  Amateur Golf  >  2009  > News, Features & Events 
    
 
 
 
  
 
   
 

      

  
 RELATED STORIES 
 
  Wychwood Park joins National County Card    
  Redhill & Reigate take up National County Card Challenge    
  National County Card to support clubs through winter months   
 
   Blue Green signals go ahead for National County Card    
 
   Oceânico Group is latest recruit to National County Card    
 
   National County Card goes on sale to members of golf clubs    
 
   New impetus for National County Card as 600 North American venues sign up    
 
 
   LATEST AMATEUR NEWS   
 

  France lays down challenge to UK golfers at Golf du Medoc    
 
  Ireland to host European Amateur Championship in 2012   
 
  Leaderboard Golf wraps up Christmas    
 
  Overwhelming support for EGU and EWGA merger   
 
  R&A rule changes aid "hole in one" prizes   
 
  Will they -Won't they - merge?    
 
  Hassle free Festive Breaks at Dartmouth   
 


  Club news from around the country   
 
 
 
 AMATEUR GOLF FEATURES   
 
  Huge savings on Festive gift ideas!   
 
  Calendar of Events, Charity Days, Pro-Ams...   
 
  Directory of Worldwide Golf Unions & Associations   
 
  News from Golf Clubs all around the country   
 
  Analyse your game and improve your scores   
 
  A Golfing A to Z   
 
 
  


  COMPETITIONS, GIFTS AND OFFERS  
 
   WIN a golf break at Selsdon Park!   
 
  WIN 18 holes at Rockliffe Hall   
 
   WIN London Golf Show tickets   
 
  WIN a Plaser golf swing training aid   
 
  Open Champion Tom Watson's DVD   
 
  Give the Open Fairways card for Xmas!   
 


 
 
 
 
 Promote your Club free of charge in 2009!  
 Keeping a tight reign on finances has never been more important during these testing economic times and National County Card is offering golf clubs a helping hand in 2009 - by promoting them for free. 
 The innovative concept, which features more than 1,100 clubs across the world, is giving all private member clubs in the UK the chance to increase visitor numbers and revenue levels at no cost. 
 By joining National County Card (NCC) for free, clubs will receive a listing on the international scheme’s website (and also on Golf Today - Ed.) giving them access to a series of eye-catching benefits including: 
 
   an advert for your club enticing NCC’s UK and international card holders to play your course when they are in your country/area; 
   a section where clubs can promote your facilities, accommodation and offers; 
   photographs of your club with your listing. 
  Rob Sutton, joint managing director of NCC, said: “National County Card was set up to benefit private member clubs and its members and we want to do as much as possible to help during these difficult times. 
 “Winter is a time when clubs’ membership levels tend to drop off and this, coupled with the credit crunch, could mean that the next few months are more difficult than most.  
 “This where NCC can help and the beauty about the concept is that it is absolutely free for clubs to join.” 
 All members of private members clubs with a valid handicap certificate can buy an NCC card and take advantage of discounted green fees at leading venues across the UK, Europe and North America by buying one of the cards for just £24.95. ( Click here for more details )  
 Card holders can achieve major discounts on green fees whether they are travelling on business, weekend breaks or holiday and there is no administration for clubs. 
 In addition, clubs will also receive £5 per card sold when their members buy a card to play at any of the worldwide clubs that have joined the scheme. 
 And each club that enrols in NCC will also receive a complimentary tailored advertising campaign at a nearby driving range with the aim of increasing memberships and visitor levels. 
 Sutton added: “Our advertising network means we can reach around 1.8 million golfers. There are no costs to your club and the free advertising will enable clubs to reach thousands of potential new members and visitors. Nearly every new golfer goes to a driving range before deciding to play a course for the first time. Driving ranges are also a great place to encourage casual, lapsed or ‘new to the area’ golfers back into the game. 
 “Our campaign has proved very successful in bringing many enquiries and new members to UK clubs and we are keen for as many clubs as possible to reap the rewards that we can offer.”  
 NCC, which was launched to private member golfers last August, already features an impressive list of clubs in the UK and Ireland including The Oxfordshire, Goodwood, Ashburnham, Castle Knock, The Ring of Kerry and Nefyn & District. 
 And the exciting course list at home is matched abroad with clubs including San Roque, La Manga and PGA de Catalunya in Spain, all the courses in Mallorca and Tenerife, 18 venues in Turkey’s Belek region and two of the most famous courses in America - the Blue Monster at Doral, Florida and the Stadium Course at Sawgrass - featuring Pete Dye's infamous 17th hole with its much-feared island green.  
 For more information on how to enrol in NCC and take advantage of the offer,  click here . 
 January 17, 2009 
    
 
 
  

 
  
 
    
    
 
 
  




 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
  





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       Score Tracker   
Handicap and Score Tracker gives you a quick and easy way to track your rounds, analyse your game and record your handicap - all online. And it's free!  
  
       Half Price Golf!    
  Play golf at over 1400 courses in the UK and Ireland for half price, and save up to 50% at over 600 courses  around the world with our discount schemes. 
 
 
  
  
      Improve your game!   
  We have over 100 lessons from top playing and teaching pros on every aspect of the game, as well as the world-famous and proven Leslie King method.  
 
 
 



 
 
 
 
 
 Golf Today Classifieds 
  
 
   
  Advertise 
 

 

 
 
   Bookmark page with: 
      del.icio.us   
      digg   
      reddit   
      stumbleupon   
      facebook   
      google   
 
 


 
   
       What are these   
       Email This Page  
      Follow us on Twitter   
    Top of Page   
 
 

 
   
      News   
      Tuition   
      Course Directory   
      Equipment   
      Travel   
      Notice Board   
 
 
 
 
© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2010