The Open Championship 2011 
 

  
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

      

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 Home  
 
 
 Amateur News   
  Archive  
  Charity Golf Days  
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Golf Course Guide  
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers   
  Book Tee Times   
  Golf Breaks & Holidays   
  Travel Features   
  Equipment  -  Shop  
  Instruction  
  Services Directory  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Classified Ads  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  




 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      


  
 	 
 
  
    
  Amateur Golf  
  2011  
  
 
 
 
   The Open Championship 2011  
    A review of the 2011 Official Film  
    9th November 2011 
  
   This DVD produced under the auspices of the R & A is a memorable, well created and crafted history of the Open Championship held at Sandwich in July 2011.  
   
     
        
     
   
   As a member of The Royal St George's Golf Club, any Open Championship played over these famous links has a particular interest for me, but this one has a special appeal in the form of the winner Darren Clarke.  
   As the film shows he appeared to play his way round the links almost cocooned against all that was going on around him. Unfazed by the poor shots or good ones that produced bad results, the film really captures the mood of the man and those around him. Plus it shows well the mood of the large crowds that turned out to watch this famous and poignant Championship.  
   
     
        
     
   
   A rank outsider and not having played his best since the tragic loss of his wife Heather who died in 2006, Darren visited and played the course before the Championship and practised at Portrush ? another true links course and where he now lives.  
   Interviewed before the Championship Darren said he would ?just play his game and not be distracted by whatever others did?. As you watch this compelling film that mood is very evident.  
   
     
        
     
   
  
   If you watch carefully there is one lovely moment when the camera catches Darren in close up when on the last day he has just played his 2nd to the last and knows the Championship is his.  
   The film is expertly made and in addition to the story of the Championship there is a special tribute to Seve Ballesteros, Highlights from the Amateur Championship and flyover views of the 18 holes of Royal St George's  
   Beautifully narrated by Struan Rodger (even if at times it sounds like a hushed commentary to a World War documentary) this film captures  the spirit of the Tournament - the players - the crowds - the course, and the mounting excitement as the Championship reaches its climax.  
   The DVD opens with a view of a barren locker room devoid of all the usual clutter of clothing, shoes etc and Darren deciding that locker no 57 was to be his for the tournament. A nice moment towards the end when he finds on the last morning a note left in the locker saying ?You're in the right place?.  
   From the outset the film captures the swinging moods of the players as they go from highs to lows: from Tom Watson holing in one on the 16th 
   
     
        
     
   
    in round one, and Tom Lewis, the young amateur playing with Tom the elder, and his hero, sharing the lead at the end of day one, to the disappointment of Westwood failing to make the cut and Mickleson, after sharing the lead on the final day, seeing his challenge fade with a series of dropped shots. Those merely instance the intensity of the Championship.  
   
     
        
     
   
   The film offers a wide and very comprehensive view of the entire Championship, and is an entertainment that all golfers and even non-golfers will find enthralling.  
   iSumming up, this is a DVD I would thoroughly recommend to anyone, but especially those lucky enough to be present at the Championship. A great Christmas present or stocking filler ? but you could win one for yourself by entering our competition on GolfToday for one of the 10 copies kindly donated by the publishers.  
   
     
        
     
   
  
   Click on the link below to enter our competition  
    http://www.golftoday.co.uk/competitions/2011/open_2011_dvd.html   
   Incidentally there is also published an equally compelling film of this year's Wimbledon Championship.  
   This excellent DVD (and Wimbledon 2011) are distributed by Good Guys Media Limited and is available from Amazon.co.uk.  
    
    Stuart Barber  
    Publisher 
     http://www.golftoday.co.uk/   
     http://www.amateur-golf.com/     
   Ê  
    
       
   
 Ê 
   
  
 
   LATEST AMATEUR NEWS   
 

  France lays down challenge to UK golfers at Golf du Medoc    
 
  Ireland to host European Amateur Championship in 2012   
 
  Leaderboard Golf wraps up Christmas    
 
  Overwhelming support for EGU and EWGA merger   
 
  R&A rule changes aid "hole in one" prizes   
 
  Will they -Won't they - merge?    
 
  Hassle free Festive Breaks at Dartmouth   
 


  Club news from around the country   
 
 

      

 
 
 
 AMATEUR GOLF FEATURES   
 
  Huge savings on Festive gift ideas!   
 
  Calendar of Events, Charity Days, Pro-Ams...   
 
  Directory of Worldwide Golf Unions & Associations   
 
  News from Golf Clubs all around the country   
 
  Analyse your game and improve your scores   
 
  A Golfing A to Z   
 
 

   LATEST GB&I GOLF UNION NEWS   
 




  New caps in Seniors Euro Championships   
 
  Kelly Tidy edges ahead in girls championship   
 
  Georgia Hall leads in U13 Championship    
 
  Paisley in European Cup team   
 
  Rachel Jennings loses Final of Welsh Strokeplay Championship    
 
  Scottish women?s open strokeplay championship   
 

 
 
 
  Charity Golf Days    
Our calendar, plus news of people and events raising money for good causes through golf.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Four Nations  
Matchplay event offers 'Ryder Cup' for club golfers. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Club News   
What's happening in clubs all around the country. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Nat'l County Card   
Golf Clubs - promote yourselves free of charge in 2009! 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golfing A-Z   
Stableford? Condor? Hole in One records? You'll find it all here. 
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us