Global Golf Post - November 28, 2011 Issue Online now 
  
  
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

      



      

 
 
  
 
 



 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  Home   
   Golf Course Guide   
  2 For 1 Golf Vouchers   
  Book Tee Times   
  Golf Breaks & Holidays  
  Travel Features  
  Golf Equipment  
  Golf Shop  
  Golf Tips &  Instruction  
  Score Tracker  
  The 19th  
  Competitions  
  Services Directory  
  Classified Ads  -  Jobs  
  Amateur Golf   
  Junior Golf  
  Ladies Golf  
  Asian Golf  
  Tour Rankings  
  Tournaments   
  99 - 00 - 01 - 02 - 03 - 04  
  05 - 06 - 07 - 08 - 09 - 10 - 11  
  Major Championships  
  Ryder Cup  
  Golf News Archive   
  99 - 00 - 01 - 02 - 03 - 04  
  05 - 06 - 07 - 08 - 09 - 10 - 11  
  Global Golf Post  
  Golf International  

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
 
  

      


  
 	 
 
  
    
    
  Cover Stories  
  Index of Articles  
  
 
 
  
  
 Match Made in China  
by Mike Purkey 
 Seems that U.S. teammates Matt Kuchar and Gary Woodland ate Thanksgiving dinner in a Chinese restaurant that featured a karaoke bar. No word on whether either could carry a tune – Golf Boys, apparently, they are not. 
 But they certainly carried each other in the Omega Mission Hills World Cup, shooting an eye-opening, 5-under 67 in the Sunday foursomes to give the Americans their 24th World Cup title. 
 In doing so, they held off a charging English team (Ian Poulter and Justin Rose), which shot an astounding 9 under in Sunday foursomes, and a stumbling Irish pair (Rory McIlroy and Graeme McDowell), which shot even par and whose eyes were certainly not smiling. 
 On the same side of the globe, Greg Chalmers is the world’s hottest lefty, winning the Australian PGA in a playoff, a fortnight after taking down a world-class field in winning the Emirates Australian Open. He is clearly the best Aussie not chosen for The Presidents Cup. Were you watching, Capt. Norman? 
 Down the street in South Africa, a home countryman won the SA Open Championship and he wasn’t named Els or Goosen, which, given their play of late, is not all that big of a surprise. Unheralded Hennie Otto took home the title, despite three bogeys in his final six holes. 
 It’s two weeks before the Race To Dubai is finally over and in the meantime, Tiger Woods plays in his own event in California, just becoming eligible by briefly climbing back into the world’s top 50 before slipping a spot.  
 Who still believes he’s the 51st best player in the world? 
 
 
 
 A Letter from the Publisher 
 On behalf of the team that publishes GlobalGolfPost each week, I want to thank you for your support. It means a great deal to us that you take time each week to read our weekly golf news publication. 
 When we launched just 16 months ago, our goal was to deliver golf news, information and analysis to serious golfers around the world. And we were then, as we are now, determined to take advantage of all that the digital platform has available. Your response has been overwhelmingly supportive, and we appreciate that very much. 
 From the beginning, the journalism side of our enterprise clicked, quickly. Having such esteemed golf writers like Lewine Mair, Paul Mahoney, Dermot Gilleece and John Hopkins join us made it easy to deliver the kind of golf content you want. 
 And now the business side of our enterprise is starting to work well, which usually happens if you get the content right. But here’s where I want to ask for your help: 
 I’d like you to tell all your golf friends about us. Perhaps talk up the Post at your golf course. Get your regular foursome to sign up for a free subscription. Perhaps even send an e-mail to all your golf pals and encourage them to give us a try. 
 The key to our success now is to grow our audience of serious golfers throughout the UK. I hope you will take a moment to help us continue to grow and delight you. 
 Fairways & Greens, 
 Jim Nugent 
   nuge@globalgolfpost.com  
 P.S. Just a reminder, the Post is free, and your friends can sign up for it at  www.globalgolfpost.com/uki . 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Reproduced with kind permission of Global Golf Post -  Subscribe now for free   

    

 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  IN THE NOVEMBER 28TH, 2011 ISSUE  
 
 Match Made In China   
 
 Wolstenholme Another Worthy 'Hall' Candidate   
 
 Heavy Putter Weighs In With Two New Models   
 
 In South Africa, Sun Keeps Shining On Pro Golf   
 
 Subscribe FREE to Global Golf Post   
 
  

 

      



  
  
  
 
 
 
  Charity Golf Days    
Our calendar, plus news of people and events raising money for good causes through golf.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Motoring 
  Mercedes-Benz C63 AMG Coupe - the
world’s greatest road-going V8? 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  A Mixed Bag   
A look at the valuations of various items of golf ephemora that readers own.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  Golf Equipment 2011   
What's new, refined & innovative for the coming year a full report from Golf Europe.  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  World Golf Tour    
Continues to grow ever more popular, surpassing over 100 million online rounds played.  
  
    
 
 


 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
  
 
  Classified Ads - see more here...  
  

   

 
   
 
 

 
 
 Bookmark page with: 
    del.icio.us   
    digg   
    reddit   
    stumbleupon   
    facebook   
    google   
 
 
 
 
   What are these?   
   Email This Page  
  Subscribe     
  Follow us on Twitter   
  Top of Page   
 
 

© Golftoday.co.uk 1996-2011 -  Terms & Conditions   -  Privacy Policy  -  About Us  -  Advertise  -  Classifieds   -  Newsletter  -  Contact Us