Purplemath 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
   
     
           
     
   
   
     
           
     
   
 
 
   
     
        
     
     
        The Purplemath Forums  Helping students gain understanding  and self-confidence in algebra 
     
     
       
                  powered by  FreeFind 
       
     
   
 
 
   
     
         
     
   
   
     
         
     
     
         
     
     
         
     
   
 
 
   
     
       Need help with algebra?  You've 
      found the right place! 
          
       Lessons:  How do you really do this stuff?  -- Purplemath's algebra lessons are written with the 
      student in mind. These lessons emphasize the practicalities rather than the technicalities, demonstrating 
      dependable techniques, warning of likely "trick" questions, and pointing out common 
      mistakes. The lessons are cross-referenced to help you find related material, and a "search" 
      box is on every page to help you find what you're looking for. (Note: A few trigonometry lessons 
      have recently been added, with more lessons on the way. If you have suggestions regarding topics, 
      particularly within trigonometry, that you would like to see added to Purplemath, please  say so . Thank you!) 
       Learning Forums:  Helping 
      students gain understanding and self-confidence in algebra.  -- These forums exist in the hope of helping learners grow in mathematical knowledge 
      and inner strength. The forums are free-access and are "staffed" by volunteers. For best 
      success, don't wait until the last minute or until you're "totally lost"; start asking 
      questions as soon as you find yourself feeling "stuck". 
       Site Reviews: -- Tired of looking through page after page of search-engine hits trying 
      to find a site that might have something useful? These categorized Internet links have all 
      been reviewed by Purplemath.  
       
         
            Free Online Tutoring and Lessons  
            Quizzes and Worksheets  
            Other Useful Sites and Services  
         
       
       Only those sites with something immediately 
      useful (and free, or free-to-try) for algebra students are listed. You won't find math jokes 
      or recreational math sites here. Instead, check these review for sites containing lessons, 
      tutoring forums, worksheets, articles on "how math is used in real life", and more. 
       Homework Guidelines:  How to suck up to your teacher.  -- English teachers tell students explicitly how to format 
      their papers. Math teachers, on the other hand, frequently just complain in the lounge about how 
      messy their students' work is. Neat homework can aid your comprehension and might make 
      your teacher like you better. These Homework Guidelines for Mathematics will give you a leg up, 
      explaining in clear terms what your math teacher is looking for. 
       Study Skills Self-Survey:  Do I have what it takes?  -- Much of your success or failure in algebra can be laid at the feet 
      of your study habits. Do you have good math study habits? Take this survey and find out. 
          
     
     
         
     
     
       
         
           
              Lessons index  
              Lessons CD  
             
             Purplemath:     Linking 
            to this site      Printing pages      Donating      School licensing  
             
              Tutoring  ($$) 
             
             Purplemath.com  Elizabeth Stapel  P.O. 
            Box 1184 Palatine IL 60078-1184  USA 
             
              Advertising     on 
            Purplemath 
           
         
       
          
     
   
 
 
   
     
         Copyright ? 1999-2011   Elizabeth 
      Stapel    |    About    |    Terms of Use    |    Privacy  
     
     
         
     
     
         Feedback    | 
         Error?  
     
   
   
     
         
     
     
         
     
     
        