Algebra Homework Help, Algebra Solvers, Free Math Tutors 
 
 
 

  

  

 
 
 

 
  
  Algebra Homework Help -- People's Math!
  
 


 
   
     

      Algebra, math homework solvers, lessons and free tutors online.Pre-algebra, Algebra I, Algebra II, Geometry, Physics. Our FREE
      tutors create solvers with work shown, write algebra lessons,
      help you solve your homework problems. Interactive solvers for
      algebra word problems. Ask questions on our question board.

      Created by the people. Can you  help ?

      
   
 

 Ad:   You enter your
     algebra homework problem - Algebrator solves it step-by-step
     providing clear explanations. Free demo.  
Ad: 
 
                 
                   Algebra Solved!ª: algebra software that solves
                   YOUR algebra homework problems with step-by-step
                   help!
                 
                
  
      

 
  
  
       Homework Help Home   
       Free Tutors   
       Fun Stuff   
      


   
    
     
     
     
     
   


  
       Log On/Register   
      

  


  
  
     ÊÊÊ 
    
  



 
 
    All Sections   Ê|Ê   Pre-Algebra   Ê|Ê   Algebra I   Ê|Ê   Algebra II   Ê|Ê   Geometry   Ê|Ê   Word Problems   Ê|Ê     
  

  
  


 
   
     
       


  
    
 Pre-Algebra ,  Algebra I ,  Algebra II ,  Geometry : homework help by 

 free math tutors , solvers, lessons. Each section
has solvers (calculators), lessons, and a place where you can
submit your problem to our  free math
tutors . To ask a question, go to a section to the right and
select "Ask Free Tutors". Most sections have archives with
hundreds of problems solved by the tutors. Lessons and solvers have
all been submitted by our contributors! 

 

 
  
  

    
    Ê 
    
 

     
        
         
          Math Simplifier,Algebra Solver :
          
          
          
          
         
        
        Pre-Algebra :    
 
       Numeric Fractions   
       Decimal numbers, power of 10, rounding   
       Operations with Signed Numbers   
       Exponents and operations on exponents   
       Divisibility and Prime Numbers   
       Roman numerals   
       Inverse operations for addition and multiplication, reciprocals   
       Evaluation of expressions, parentheses   
    
       Distributive, associative, commutative properties, FOIL   
       Equations   
       Inequalities, trichotomy   
       Linear Equations, Graphs, Slope   
       Proportions   
       Percentage and Pie Charts   
       Number Line   
       Average   
 
   
  Algebra I :    
 
       Algebra in Finance   
       Functions, Domain, NOT graphing   
       Coordinate systems, graph plotting, etc   
       Graphs, graphing equations and inequalities   
       Real numbers, Irrational numbers, etc   
       Absolute value   
       Logarithm   
       Systems of Linear Equations   
    
       Square root, cubic root, N-th root   
       Negative and Fractional exponents   
       Expressions involving variables, substitution   
       Polynomials, rational expressions and equations   
       Radicals -- complicated equations involving roots   
       Quadratic Equation   
       Inequalities, trichotomy   
       Systems of equations that are not linear   
 
   
  Algebra II :    
 
       Complex Numbers   
       Linear Algebra (NOT Linear Equations)   
       Introduction to vectors, addition and scaling   
       Matrices, determinant, Cramer rule   
       Exponent and logarithm as functions of power   
       Rational Functions, analyzing and graphing   
    
       Conic sections - ellipse, parabola, hyperbola   
       Sequences of numbers, series and how to sum them   
       Probability and statistics   
       Trigonometry   
       Combinatorics and Permutations   
       Unit Conversion   
 
   
  Geometry :    
 
       Geometric formulas   
       Angles, complementary, supplementary angles   
       Triangles   
       Pythagorean theorem   
       Volume, Metric volume   
       Circles and their properties   
       Rectangles   
    
       Length, distance, coordinates, metric length   
       Proofs in Geometry   
       Bodies in space, right solid, cylinder, sphere   
       Parallelograms   
       Points, lines, angles, perimeter   
       Polygons   
       Area and Surface Area   
 
   
   
  
 
       and  much more (see list of all sections) !
     


    
  

  
    
	 
          
         
         
        New! Free  Video lessons! 
    
    Ê 
    
	We have dozens of VIDEO math lectures: by
         Nutshell Math  and
         Brightstorm .
        (uses Flash technology). Easy, very detailed
	Voice and Handwriting explanations designed to help middle
	school and high school math students. Lessons discuss questions that  cause
        most difficulties.

    
  

  
    
      Word (Story) Problems  
      Solve and Practice word problems 
    
    Ê 
    
     
        Numbers ,
        Travel and Distance ,
        Mixtures ,
        Quadratic Problems 
 
        Finance ,
        Age ,
        Problems solved by Linear Systems ,
        Geometry ,
        Practice solving algebra word problems 
               
       Customizable! Just type in your values.
     
    
  
 

  
    
     
       Fun Stuff
     
    
    Ê 
    
       Bored?  
         Talk to Splotchy , an artificial
       intelligence robot with funny voice. 
             Dumbest things from school essays .
            Build vocabulary for SAT, fun  SAT vocabulary game .

    
  


  
    
     
        
        Algebra Worksheets at edHelper.com
        
     
    
    Ê 
    
     
   Over 600 Algebra Word
  Problems ,  Algebra
  Number Puzzles ,
   Exponents ,
   Polynomials ,
   Radical Numbers ,
   Factoring ,
   Complex Numbers .
     
    
  


  
    
      College Algebra 
      
     We help you get through college
    
    Ê 
    
     
        Linear Algebra Workbench : Vectors, Matrices, Linear Systems; Lessons, Free Book PDF
        
        Math Formula to Pictures 
       : Type in a formula, get a nice JPEG picture
       for your website!
        
        Abstract Algebra : Groups, Fields, Rings...
     
    
  

  
    
      Math Tutors Wanted! 
      
     Become famous by teaching math
    
    Ê 
    
     Our 1632   algebra tutors 
     solved  323080  problems
submitted by 95000 registered students,
     wrote 820  lessons ,
     194  solvers ,
     to be seen by  thousands !
     They become famous and promote their math sites.
     Click here to learn about  algebra tutoring  and
     how to  promote your math website or a book .
     Watch it happening with a 
        realtime Algebra.Com ticker , or
      view 50 most recent unsolved problems .
    
  


       

     
   

   
     
     
   


 
  


 
News: ( subscribe to Site updates  RSS  (?) ) -  ticker . 
ÊMay 18:  You can write functions like "sine squared" in solutions  
             You can now plot functions like "sine squared", for example  sin^2(z) : 

 

ÊMay 15:  I quit my job to do algebra.com FULL TIME.  
             I quit my day job, in order to work on algebra.com full time. 
My mission is to make homework more fun and educational, and 
to help people teach others for free.
 

ÊMay 15:  Password reset for absent minded professors...  
             I added a function to reset a forgotten password. It asks 
you for the registered email address, and resets a password if you prove
that you own the email address.
 

ÊMay 10:  Please help me REDESIGN my web pages!  
             it is time to move out of 1998 style designs and move to something
more child friendly, easier on the eye, and with improved
navigation. Email your suggestions to  Igor The WebMaster .
 


 

Our math tutors are  adding stuff to this
site daily . So stop by once in a while, or  get
notified about updates via RSS , or watch 


 realtime Algebra.Com ticker  (New!), or follow our  Twitter Feed .


  
       About Algebra.Com   -- for advertisers and webmasters who want to promote their sites 
      Link to us: <A HREF=http://www.algebra.com/>Algebra Help</A> 
        STUMP Robomoderator program  
       Mobile Algebra Website, iPhone algebra  
       Webster Dictionary  with pronunciation 
       Online Storage    
       Russian Technical Translation   
  
  
 

 
 


This page was accessed 15,496,044 times. 



 Algebra.Com Privacy Policy