Theorem of Pythagoras 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pythagore 
Demonstration of the theorem 
  

 
 
 
 
   
 homepage 
 
 
 
 
Source of this page 
 
 Author :
 
Thibaut Bernard 
 
 
 Number of visitor
 

 
 
 

 Update: Monday 1th August 2005. 

  Alphaquark  author's Note : 
This page is a translation of
 
Démonstration du théorème de Pythagore 
with the help of
 Altavista translation . 
I hope this translation is good, but if there are any errors, you can
 write me . 
If this translation is successful, perhaps I will try to translate another document of
 Alphaquark .
 


   
  
   
 Construction of the geometrical figure which will be used for
the demonstration
 
 Let us take a rectangle of width A and height B. This
rectangle which we make swivel of 90 o  in the following way :
 
  

 
 
 
 For each rectangle, let us divide into two in the following
way :
 
    
    
    
 
 Let us make swivel of 90 o  the right-angled triangles in the
following way yellow and purple :
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We thus find ourselves with four right-angled triangles.
 
    
    
    
 
 We note that one finds oneself with a square inside another.
 
 
 


   
  
   
 Demonstration 

   
 
 Notation 
 

 Let us take again our last diagram to indicate each 
sides by the following letters:
 
 
  
 

 
One has four right-angled triangles of which : 
the side opposed by a, 
the base is indicated by b, 
and the hypotenuse by n.
 
 Each hypotenuse n thus represent sides small square. 
 With sides opposite more the base (a + b) of each
right-angled triangle represent each one of with sides great
square.
 

   
 
 Surface squares 
 
 Small square : n 2 . 
 Great square : (a + b) 2 .
 

   
 
 Surface right-angled triangles 
 

 If one associates two right-angled triangles, one finds
oneself with a rectangle of surface : a * b.
 
 The total surface of the four right-angled triangles is : 2ab.
 

   
 
 Difference in surface 
 

 The surface of the small square is equal to the surface of
the great square minus the surface of the four right-angled triangles :
 
 
 n 2  = (a + b) 2  - 2ab 
 

 from where 
 
 n 2  = a 2  + 2ab + b 2  - 2ab 
 

 what gives 
 
 n 2  = a 2  + b 2  
 

 Conclusion, the square of the hypotenuse is equal to the sum of the
squares of the sides of the right angle.