Algebra Review in Ten Lessons 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 

 
 
					
					  
					 
					  A Note on the Retirement of D. P. Story  
				 
					 Last Update: 02/03/2007 
				 The usual navigation system is out, so here are direct links to the tutorial files. 
				 
					 
						 
							 
								Main Menu (PDF):  mpt_menu.pdf   
						 
					 
					 
						 
							 
									  lesson01.pdf  : Setting up the environment 
									  lesson02.pdf   : Radical and Exponents 
									  lesson03.pdf   : Basic Algebra, Part I 
								  lesson04.pdf   : Basic Algebra, Part IU 
								  lesson05.pdf   : Expansion 
							 
						 
						 
							 
								  lesson06.pdf   : Dividing and Factoring Polynomials 
								  lesson07.pdf   : Solving Equations and Inequalities 
								  lesson08.pdf  : Cartesian Coordinate System & Functions 
								  lesson09.pdf  : Functions (cont.) & First Degree Curves 
								  lesson10.pdf  : Some Second Degree & Trig Curves 
							 
						 
					 
					 
						
					 
					 
						
					 
				 
				  
			 

 
					
						
					
						
					
						
					
						
					
						
					
						
					
						
					
						
						  
 
			
		 
 
			  
   
     
								 
									 
								 
							 
     
								 
									 
									  What's New  
							 
     
								 
									 
								 
							 
   
  
			 
					 
						 
							 
								    
								 Get the Latest version of 
									Acrobat Reader 5.0. Click on the
Get Acrobat Icon above to go to
    the download area. 
								   
								   
								 Use Netscape!  
								   
							 
							 
								 This is the review of Algebra in 10 lessons written in TeX
    and converted to the Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF). Features
    include verbose discussion of topics, typeset quality
    mathematics, user interactivity in the form of multiple choice
    quizzes, in-line examples and exercises with complete solutions,
    and pop-up graphics. 
								 These tutorials are viewed in the PDF format. This requires
    that you have Acrobat Reader 3.0 or greater, which you can obtain
    by clicking on the Get Adobe Reader icon. The tutorial
    will not function correctly unless you have Version
    3.0. or greater. 
								 This might be a good time to update to the latest version
    of the Reader, version 5.0. 
								 If you are a first time user, be sure to check out the section
    entitled  Important Components  and the
    section Important Information directly
    below it before you  start Algebra Review .
							 
						 
						 
							 
        
							 
      
						 
						 
							 Important   
								Components 
							 Important!   
								
    You also need a graphics viewer for viewing certain `.tiff' files.
    See Components Needed for Browser, below. 
						 
						 
							 
      
							 
      
						 
						 
							 Important    
								Information 
							 
								 Important Information.  
								 
									  Components Needed for Browser  
									  Tools Used  
									  What's New 
									 Other Tutorial Available at this site.
									 
										  e-Calculus , "the"
        Calculus I tutorial 
									 
									  Acknowledgments 
									  Awards! 
									  Why? 
									  Site Map  
									  Downloading to a local disk and Mirroring.  
									  Advertisement . Like what
      you see here? Want others to know about the Algebra Review? Why
      not download my  advertisement flyer ,
      print it, and post it in your favorite location where Algebra
      students congregate..

								 
							 
						 
						 
							 
        
							 
      
						 
						 
							 
     Start! 
							 
								 Ready to Start? Click on  Review
    Algebra  
								 Don't forget to sign the  Guestbook 
    after you browse the site, or after you begin your study! Note: Signing
    the guestbook is not required.
							 
						 
						 
							 
      
							 
      
						 
						 
							 
      
							 
     Visitors since 7/7/97:   
 
 
								 
									 
										 
         10,000 visitors 7/8/98 
										 
         60,000 visitors 1/15/2000 
									 
									 
										 
         20,000 visitors 2/23/99 
										 
        70,000 visitors 3/2/2000 
									 
									 
										 
         30,000 visitors 7/4/99 
										 
        80,000 visitors 4/14/2000 
									 
									 
										 
         40,000 visitors 10/13/99 
										 
        150,000 visitors 6/10/2001 
									 
									 
										 
         50,000 visitors 12/1/99 
										 
          
									 
								 
							 
						 
						 
							 
      
							 
      
						 
						 
							 
      
							 Send comments, criticisms, witticisms, footnotes
    and remarks to   
								e-mail:  DPStory@Uakron.edu  
 
								homepage:  D.
    P. Story   
						 
					 
			 
			    
			  
   
     
     Awards!  
     
           
   
  

       

  
   
     
     Why?  
     
       
     
     Why? Is a good question to ask. This review of (high
    school) algebra in 10 lessons is designed to prepare students
    entering The University of Akron for our Math Placement Exam
    II. The mark received on this test determines the starting point
    in mathematics at our university. Reasons for and uses of this
    tutorial are given in the opening menu.  
   
  

       

   
   
     
     Tools Used:   
     
    Let me describe the tools used to develop the tutorials.  
   
   

  
   
     
     AMS-TeX  
 
    version 2.1:   
       
     
     
       Why TeX and why AMS-TeX? The goal of the tutorials was to
      have textbook quality typesetting. AMS-TeX has a broad collection
      of mathematical typesetting macros that makes life easy. I did
      not use LaTeX. Plain TeX combined with AMS-TeX gave me the ability
      to write highly specialized formatting macros without being forced
      into a finite collection of packaged formats. 
     
 
   
  

  
   
     
    TeX Compiler   
    and Previewer  
     
     
       Some of the goals of these tutorials were to have color
      fonts, hypertext link capabilities for cross-referencing
      as well as textbook quality typesetting. After looking around
      for what was available (freeware, shareware, and payware), I
      settled on the  Y&Y TeX System .
      This was the only system that had all the stated features---and
      then some. 
       I found that the people at Y&Y were extremely cooperative.
      They worked with me and added in some additional features that
      I argued were important and needed. Without their help the initial
      phase of the project could not have progressed nearly as fast
      as it did. 
       As a consequence of the high quality of the Y&Y product,
      I have been able to develop on-line tutorials in Calculus
      and Algebra that have a high degree of interactivity (also
      one of the goals of the project). On my  Department's 
      local network, students used the  DVIWindo 
      to view the tutorials. 
       One of the problems with the concept of an on-line tutorial
      was that the students had to come into the computer labs to read
      the tutorial. Early on, students asked me if the tutorials were
      available over the `net; my answer, an emphatic: "No!" 
       Fortunately, the people of Y&Y anticipated the directions
      of TeX publication. They had already begun to work on the problem
      of porting PostScript files produced by their TeX compiler to
      the Portable Document Format of Adobe. This again made it very,
      very easy to move portions of the tutorial to the net. See the
      next point. 
     
 
   
  

  
   
     
     Acrobat
    3.0   
     by
    Adobe   
     
     
       Given that the basic goals of the project are still valid,
      the natural choice of document format was PDF. Y&Y's  DVIPSONE  automatically
      converts the hypertext links within the dvi file to pdfmarks.
      Hence, converting from dvi to pdf was a painless (almost) task.
      Within DVIWindo, we print the dvi file to Adobe's Distiller
      Assistant. The Assistant calls the Distiller to convert the file
      to the pdf format. A one-step process! 
       Some of the interactivity is lost however. As I learn more
      about Acrobat and it's capabilities, perhaps all the tricks that
      I used for the dvi files can eventually be ported to the pdf
      format. 
       Of course, a pdf file can be read on most any platform using
      the free  Adobe
      Acrobat Reader.  
     
 
   
  

  
   
     
     PSTricks  
     
    In the tutorial Algebra Review in Ten Lessons, I've begun
    using PSTricks by Timothy van Zandt. This TeX macro
    package unleashes the power of postscript within a TeX document.
    I used PSTricks to create the Algebra Review logo
    and the many graphs that appear in Lessons 9 and 10.  
   
  

   Configuring
your Browser    

  
   
     
    Graphics Viewers:   
     
     I utilize graphic files in the tiff format for two
    purposes: (1) To display graphs and pictures that illustrate
    the points under discussion, and (2) To display messages to the
    user---this is used for the interactivity part of the tutorial. 

     You need a (external) helper application for viewing these
    tiff files.  

     
       Windows 95. The one I
      use for my Windows 95 based system is a free viewer
      that extends quikview.exe, a program that comes with the
      operating system. The file you want is called  ImgView.
       It is freely available from  PCMag 
      from their  Downloads
      Homepage . Download ImgView and install it. (Be sure
      to install the tiff viewer.) Configure your browser to
      use quikview, which is located in c:\windows\system\viewers
      subdirectory, as the helper application to use with viewing tiff
      files. (Note: If you do not have the quikview.exe, you
      can  download
      it  from Microsoft; or, if not found at that Url (due
      to reindexing of the site), go to the  Microsoft 
      homepage and search on the key word "quickview".
       Windows 3.x. I recommend
       ACDSee16 .
      Configure your (Netscape) browser to use ACDSee16 as a helper
      application when viewing tiff files. 
     
 
   
  

       

  
   
     
     What's New!  
     
     
       (1/31/98) Uploaded  a_qbn1j.pdf .
      This new version of Algeboard, which uses  Acrobat
      Forms 3.5,  uses Javascript programming to keep score as you
      answer the questions. You must have installed  Acrobat
      Forms 3.5  for the games to work properly. Report any bugs
      in the programming to me please.
       (12/1/97) Uploaded  a_qbn1.pdf ,
      Algeboard, the Algebra Quiz Board Game.
       Uploaded  maintut.pdf  with
      new action button on it. Check it out!
       (10/6/97) Installed Guestbook script. Forms available
      in html format and pdf format (see  mainmenu.pdf )
       (9/6/97) Uploaded Lesson 10 --- DONE!
      ! ! ! For Now
       (8/4/97) Uploaded Lesson 9 --- one more to go!
       (7/28/97) Uploaded Lesson 8 --- two more to go!
       (7/14/97) Uploaded Lesson 7. Also lightly edited versions
      of Lessons 1 -- 6. Three more to go!
       (7/7//97) Uploaded Lessons 1--6 for a Review of Algebra. 
     
 
   
  

       

  
   
     
     Site Map  
     
     For return visitors who want to jump directly to a topic of
    interest, here is a listing of the files.  

     
       Root Directory 
       
          mainmpt.pdf  
       
       Algebra Directory 
       
          mpt_menu.pdf  
          lesson01.pdf  
          lesson02.pdf  
          lesson03.pdf  
          lesson04.pdf  
          lesson05.pdf  
          lesson06.pdf  
          lesson07.pdf  
          lesson08.pdf 
          lesson09.pdf 
          lesson10.pdf 
       
       Games Directory
       
          a_qbn1.pdf 
          a_qbn1j.pdf 
          gofcalc.pdf 
          fc01.pdf 
       
     
 
   
  

       

  
   
     
    Downloading    
    and Mirroring   
     
     Should you find it necessary, you can download the tutorial
    to a local hard disk and use it locally; however, there are some
    caveats.  

     The tutorial is setup for the Web and so many of the brown links are relative path URL's...they
    will not work on a local hard disk. Some brown
    links will work: The ones that simply load a pdf file;
    it is the links that have a named destination that will
    not work. All of the green links
    will work. 

     Additionally, you will lose all messages that pop-up with
    `funny messages.' All graphics are lost too. 

     These are natural limitations put on the system by the Acrobat
    application. Loading a file works the same whether on the Web
    or on a local system; jumping to a named destination in another
    pdf file requires one set commands for the Web and an entirely
    different set of commands for a local disk system. It is a bit
    of a nuisance because the tutorial is available locally at The
    University of Akron; consequently, I must recompile all files
    twice, once for the web and again for a local disk system. 

     The tutorial is undergoing constant change; downloading the
    tutorial immediately outdates it! What you see here is my `first
    time through.' Over the next year, I'll re-read the entire tutorial,
    re-write it, add new exercises and examples, more figures, better
    explanations etc, etc, and, of course, etc. 

     The Web system works very well at The University of Akron---the
    access time in my office is quite acceptable. Should you be interested,
    I might consider allowing other universities mirror this
    site, in this way the tutorial will be a greater pleasure (more
    than it already is :--) ) to use. 

     Please contact me if you would like to mirror this site.  
   
  

     

      

   
   
     
     Acknowledgments  
     
    The Algebra tutorials has never properly proof-read  I would
    like to thanks the following Web Surfers for reporting the "Algebraic
    Bug" that lived in the lessons. They are Gary M of U.K.,
    Jeff K of the USA, Eric M of the USA, and Marco of Iceland. Many,
    many thanks for finding errors and typos; they have all improved
    the quality of the "Algebra Review
    in Ten Lessons".dps